


         ██╗   ██╗ ██████╗██╗   ██╗██████╗ ███████╗███████╗███████╗
         ██║   ██║██╔════╝██║   ██║██╔══██╗██╔════╝██╔════╝██╔════╝
         ██║   ██║██║     ██║   ██║██████╔╝███████╗█████╗  ███████╗
         ██║   ██║██║     ██║   ██║██╔══██╗╚════██║██╔══╝  ╚════██║
         ╚██████╔╝╚██████╗╚██████╔╝██║  ██║███████║███████╗███████║
          ╚═════╝  ╚═════╝ ╚═════╝ ╚═╝  ╚═╝╚══════╝╚══════╝╚══════╝

                       The micro-sized curses library 
                        for Linux virtual terminals.

                     https://github.com/mark4th/uCurses

                     Copyright © 2025 Mark I Manning IV

           ┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
           ┃                                                  ┃
           ┃      If something can be read without effort     ┃
           ┃               then great effort                  ┃
           ┃           has gone into its writing.             ┃
           ┃                                                  ┃
           ┃          -- Enrique Jardiel Poncela --           ┃
           ┃                                                  ┃
           ┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛


0: Table of contents:
---------------------

    1..........Introduction
    1.1............Whats documented

    2..........Terminfo
    2.1...........uC_ti_parse.c
    2.2...........Terminfo format string specifiers.
    2.2.1.............If / And / But
    2.2.2.............Format String Specifiers
    2.2.3.............The Beef
    2.2.4.............uC_terminfo.h
    2.2.5.............uC_terminfo.c

    3..........Terminal Attributes
    3.1............uC_attribs.c
    3.1.1.............Modifying attributes variables
    3.2............Terminfo database files.
    3.3............uC_console_attribs.c

    4..........Keyboard input
    4.1............uC_key_read.c
    4.2............uC_key_sequence.c
    4.3............uC_key_table.c

    5..........The Screen
    5.1............uC_screen_ctrl.c
    5.2............Drawing it all
    5.3............Updating the console
    5.4............uC_screen_draw.c
    5.5............uC_screen_ctrl.c

    6..........The Window
    6.1............uC_window_ctrl.c
    6.2............uC_window_attr.c
    6.3............uC_borders.c

    7..........Status windows
    7.1............uC_status.c

    8..........Menus
    8.1............uC_menu_bar.c
    8.2............uC_menu_pulldown.c
    8.3............uC_menu_item.c
    8.4............uC_menu_key.c

    9..........Widgets
    9.1............uC_wigets.c
    9.2............uC_widget_view.c
    9.3............uC_widget_view_group.c
    9.4............uC_widget_draw.c
    9.5............uC_widget_button.c
    9.6............uC_widget_check.c
    9.7............uC_widget_radio.c
    9.8............uC_widget_textbox.c
    9.9............uC_widget_scan.c
    9.10...........uC_widget_keys.c

    10.........Utilities
    10.1...........uC_utils.c
    10.2...........uC_alloc.c
    10.3...........uC_braille.c
    10.4...........uC_entry.c
    10.5...........uC_eval.c
    10.6...........uC_list.c
    10.7...........uC_rgb_hsl.c
    10.8...........uC_swtitch.c
    10.9...........uC_utf8.c
    10.10..........uC_win_printf.c
    10.11..........uC_winch.c

    11.........JSON
    11.1...........json.c
    11.2...........json_token.c
    11.3...........json_key.c
    11.3.1.............Object Structures
    11.3.2.............Key tokens
    11.3.3.............Key and Object handling
    11.4...........json_value.c
    11.5...........json_populate.c
    11.6...........json_build.c

    12.........Final words


1: Introduction
---------------

First of all, this library is not a replacement for ncurses and it was
never intended to be.  It's primary purpose is to give developers of
embedded Linux systems with limited resources the ability to create simple
yet powerful terminal based user interfaces.

It would actually be next to impossible for me to create anything that
could even come close to competing with ncurses because Thomas E. Dickey
who is the current (long time) maintainer of ncurses has extensive
knowledge of the domain that I currently lack.  He also produces a library
that has two things going for it that uCurses does not and may never have!

    1) Consistent Reliability
    2) Reliable Consistency

There is a very *very* good reason why ncurses is ubiquitous in the *nix
universe - How could an ID10T like me compete with that? <3

    Note: While I do not actually program ncurses and in fact know
    absolutely nothing about developing with it, this library would not be
    possible at all without ncurses or its developer.

This library does however have a few things that ncurses does not.

    It is extremely small (but growing :/ ).

        At the time of writing, ncurses is a little over 4.3 megabytes in
        size and I may have missed counting a few files.  It also takes a
        little over seven minutes to compile on my laptop.

        uCurses on the other hand currently takes up about 87k and 
        compiles in about two or three seconds ish depending on planetary
        alignment.  This means that recompiling this on any embedded
        system it is installed on would probably not bog that system down
        during any such build.   No need for this to be target compiled!

        P.S.  This is not a criticism of ncurses, with all that 'beef' it
        brings a lot of utility to the table and it fully supports pretty
        much any hardware you throw at it, including ancient hardware.

        uCurses OTOH has a tendency to not cooperate well with certain
        virtual terminals (such as xterm which just happens to be another
        thing TED maintains!).  It is known to work "almost" perfectly in
        gnome-terminal, ptyxis and Konsole!   YMMV (tm).

    Moveable, overlapping windows.

        This I believe would be almost impossible using ncurses yet is
        ultra trivial here.  I do however have confidence that anyone
        experienced with ncurses development could probably achieve the
        same thing though probably not with ease.

    A custom JSON Parser for user interface descriptions.

        This custom parser literally doubled the size of my library when
        it was implemented but it allows the application developer to
        describe almost their entire user interface in JSON.

        The exception here is widgets which are considered ephemeral so
        can only be created and destroyed programmatically on an as needed
        basis.

        Menus, which might normally be considered a class of "widget" and
        which might normally be handled by the widget handler elsewhere
        are handled independently of them here because menus are not
        considered ephemeral.

        Menus and widgets are also independent build options which can be
        stripped out of the build to save space for functionality not
        needed in an application.

        The developer of course still has the ability to create and
        destroy menus programmatically outside the scope of the JSON
        parser.

        The JSON data can be either a separate plain text file loaded at
        application launch, allowing application end users to possibly
        theme the application, or it can be built into your executable
        and possibly be compressed.

        The menu system, widgets and JSON parser are all independent build
        options and excluding one or more of them can significantly shrink
        the overall size of the build for your target.

NOTE: This library is built with a -fvisibility=hidden arg passed to the C
compiler.  This will cause all symbols that are not marked as public to be
stripped out of the executable at link time.  All public API entities are
prefixed with an API macro which is defined in a header file.  If any
entity lacks this prefix it is not visible to any application using this
library.

All items that are marked as static are only visible within the module
wherein they are defined and any item that is neither prefixed with the
API macro nor marked as static will have global visibility only within the
library itself.


1.1 Whats documented (or will be)
---------------------------------

The documentation for uCurses will detail every aspect of this library.
It will show you not only how to use it but how it works and why it does
the things it does the way it does them.  This specific document lightly
covers almost every function or other entity within every C source file
but it does not describe how they are intended to be used within the
overall system, that will be covered in a separate (hopefully smaller)
document.

One of the biggest criticisms I have for the documentation of other API's
is that while they provide extensive descriptions for every PUBLIC
function, what parameters they expect and what values they return etc they
almost never explain to you how you are supposed to use all of those
234755864237 public API calls in an application.   They also never that I
have seen document any non public entity within their sources.

WARNING: I might also rant just a little bit here and there about the way
developers of Linux virtual terminals do not honor the contract they sign
in their terminfo databases.  The more I learn the more I come to
understand that this might not actually be *entirely* their fault but...
I still rant because...

    I consider terminfo to be a BINDING contract so when (for example)
    your terminal randomly decides to return either 0x08 or 0x7f (based on
    who compiled it?) when someone presses the backspace key, when your
    terminfo explicitly states that it will return 0x08, then I consider
    you to be in flagrant, wilful violation of your contract.

Things like this force me to add special needs 'duct tape' code to fix
things that in my mind should not need fixing.  This and other "quirks"
probably accounts for at least part of why ncurses is as large as it is.

Note to TED:  If there is *anything* stated in the uCurses documentation
that is even slightly incorrect I will gladly take instruction and change
these texts.  The same applies to any of my code.  I will even take
destructive criticism and flames from "certain quarters" and try to make
corrections :)


2: Terminfo
-----------

This library makes extensive use of terminfo.  Every single color change
or cursor movement is performed using the specific escape sequences for
the specific virtual terminal being used.  Terminfo supplies templates for
each escape sequence supported by a given terminal in the form of format
strings.

Different terminals often use different escape sequences to perform the
same operations.  The format string for a given terminal allow this
library to compile the correct escape sequence for the required operation
on almost any terminal.

These 'format strings' are written in a very simple interpreted language.
They are passed to an interpreter along with what ever parameters are
required which will parse them and compile the appropriate escape
sequences.

A format string is a small text string that contains either characters to
be written out directly to the compiled escape sequence buffer or
operators which perform various operations to aid in the compilation of
other things to be written to said buffer.

In uCurses, all of this is done by the functions in...


2.1: uC_ti_parse.c
------------------

I believe it is somewhat important for developers to have at least a
partial understanding of what goes on in here.  This file is the heart of
the entire system and is literally the first code developed for uCurses.
The entire rest of the system was built up from right here.

All variables used by this parser are stored in an allocated structure
called 'ti_vars' which is of type 'ti_vars_t'.  This structure is defined
in the uC_terminfo.h file.

This structure contains the following entities.  The purpose of each of
these is described in more details below.

    * A pointer to the current position within the current terminfo
      format string.
    * The format string stack.
    * Arrays for the static and dynamic terminfo variables.
    * An array of terminfo format string parameters.
    * The address of a buffer to store compiled escape sequences.
    * Variables associated with the terminals memory mapped terminfo
      database file (containing the format strings etc).
    * The keyboard input buffer and other related variables.

As each escape sequence is compiled it is appended onto the end of the
above mentioned escape sequence buffer.  It should be noted that when
generating those escape sequences nothing is physically written out to the
console until either the escape sequences for the entire update have been
compiled or the escape buffer becomes full.

While some effort has been made to allow for flushing of the buffer when
it is filled, this might not actually work if said buffer is flushed half
way through the current escape sequence.  This is of course just a "Simple
matter of programming" but I am not sure whether I shall be 'fixing' it or
not.  See Below!

The parsing of terminfo format strings is a very simple affair.  You have
a format string, you have parameters, you have variables and you have a
stack.  Parameters are passed to the format string interpreter and are
stored in a parameters array.  Variables are usually calculated based on
values contained within the format strings themselves.  By convention,
variables are read / write, parameters are read only while parsing is in
progress.

The stack is used as temporary storage by the parser to hold values to be
acted on by the various operators during said parsing (see below).

The following functions support the format parser and the various
primitives it references based on specifiers contained in the format
strings which are explained below..

    void alloc_parse(void)

        This function allocates the structure containing the variables
        used during the parsing of terminfo format strings.  The allocator
        used here is also part of uCurses (and public) and is detailed
        elsewhere in this document.

        This function also allocates the escape sequence buffer which at
        the time of writing has a hard coded size of 64k.  This is
        probably overkill and it's use could be easily monitored within
        your application with the addition of some simple profiling code
        here.  If this is done it could allow application developers to
        shrink its size to its minimum used space plus some wiggle room.

        I may eventually add this as a debug build option. (or add a debug
        API?)

    API void uC_terminfo_flush(void)

        This function is were all the compiled escape sequences are
        written out to the virtual terminals stdout.  There is a small
        'todo' left in here for handling the condition where the write
        fails.  I have never actually seen that write fail and am not sure
        of the correct way to handle such an occurrence, hence the todo.

        At a minimum I should probably attempt at least one retry.

    void terminfo_purge(void)

        This function which is not exposed but which probably should be is
        used to abort the current update and wipe all currently compiled
        escape sequences from the buffer.  I am toying with finding a new
        name for the 'flush' function because a 'flush' and a 'purge'
        sound like the same thing.  Any suggestions?

    void c_emit(char c1)

        This function simply writes one character to the escape buffer.
        If however the buffer is full it will first flush the current
        contents of the buffer out to the terminal so we can start
        compiling another 64k of escape sequences (yay!).

        As stated above, this is not quite right in its implementation
        because if the new character is part of an already partially
        compiled escape sequence then we probably cant flush half of that
        incomplete sequence now and half later.

        One answer to this would be to add a variable to remember where in
        the buffer the start of the most recent escape sequence is so we
        can simply flush up to that point but not beyond.  We simply leave
        one escape sequence from the previous run in the buffer if said
        sequence is incomplete!

        This solution however may very well be a minor solution to a huge
        non problem problem and I need to investigate further before I
        commit to implementing it.

    static void fs_push(int64_t n)

        This pushes the passed integer onto the terminfo format stack.  I
        have set an arbitrary maximum depth of five items here using a
        special magic number '5'.  If any attempt is made to push a sixth
        item the program will complain and die horribly (tm).

        Maybe this should not be a magic number and maybe, somewhere out
        there in the wild there is a format string that needs to use more
        stack.  Who knows?

    static int64_t fs_pop(void)

        Pops one item off the format stack and returns it to the caller.
        If any attempt is made to pop an item off this stack when it is
        empty then the program will complain and die horribly (tm).

The above "die horribly (tm)" is because both the stack overflow and
underflow are considered to be critical errors in this parser.  In the few
years I have been developing this library I have never actually seen this
occur and as we all know, the absence of proof is the proof of absence!

    static int64_t *get_var_addr(void)

        This helper function will read one character out of the current
        format string which should be in the range 'a' to 'z' or 'A' to
        'Z'.

        These are interpreted as single character names for either the
        static or dynamic variables which in turn are used as indices into
        their respective variable arrays.  The address is returned as an
        int64_t pointer to the caller.

        The terminfo man page states that in practice there has never been
        any usage difference between the two variable types.


2.2: Terminfo format string specifiers.
---------------------------------------

The specifiers within the terminfo format strings are very similar to the
ones used in C's printf functions.  I.E.  They all start with a percent
symbol.

Each specifier is described below.  They all perform very simple
operations but there are quite a few of them to go over.  None of these
make use of C's evil variadic functions.  I do that elsewhere tho } : )

    NOTE: Being able to mentally interpret a terminfo format string might
    not be vital to the application developers understanding of or the use
    of this library but I still consider it important enough to document.
    This 'skill' does have its uses.


2.2.1: If / And / But
---------------------

The terminfo format string 'language' allows for conditionals which may be
nested.  The if / else / then format specifiers are %?, %t, %e and %;.

A conditional sequence within a format string is in the form...

    %? ccc %t ttt %e fff %;

I treat %? as a 'no operation' and continue to parse the 'ccc' (condition)
part above.  This will place either a true or a false condition on the
stack.

The %t (I call this the test) will pop that condition off the stack and
will either do nothing and continue parsing and interpreting the ttt part
of the above example (condition true) or will parse and ignore the
format string up to the character just beyond the following %e or %; if
there is no %e.  It will then continue interpreting from that point.

As stated, if the condition was true then the 'ttt' (true) part of the
above example format string will be parsed and interpreted up to the
following %e or %; if there is no %e.  If the parser sees a %e here it
will then parse and discard everything from the %e to the %;

If the condition was false then the format string will be scanned from the
%t up to the character just beyond the %e specifier where the 'fff'
(false) portion of the above example will be interpreted.

In uCurses %; is also a no operation.

    This just happens to be almost exactly the same way a Forth system
    would handle if / and / but loops!

The following function is used when parsing and interpreting conditionals
within a terminfo format string.

    static char scan(void)

        This static helper function will repeatedly parse the current
        format string up to the next format specifier within it.  Once the
        next format specifier (percent character) within the string has
        been found the specific letter of that specifier is returned to
        the caller.


2.2.2: Format String Specifiers
-------------------------------

The following list shows the form of each specifier as it would appear in
a format string and the name of the function that performs that specifiers
associated operation.

    %%  static void _percent(void)

        Simply emits a '%' character to the escape buffer.

    %&  static void _and(void)

        Pops two items off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and performs a bitwise AND
        operation on them.  The result is then pushed onto the stack to be
        returned to the interpreter.

        This is similar in nature to C's & operator.

    %A  static void _andl(void)

        Pops two items off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and performs a logical AND
        operation on them.  The result is then pushed onto the stack to be
        returned to the interpreter.

        This is similar in nature to C's && operator.

    %|  static void _or(void)

        Pops two items off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and performs a bitwise OR
        operation on them.  The result is then pushed onto the stack to be
        returned to the interpreter.

        This is similar in nature to C's | operator.

    %O  static void _orl(void)

        Pops two items off the terinfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and preforms a logical OR
        operation on them.  The result is then pushed onto the stack to be
        returned to the interpreter.

        This is similar in nature to C's || operator.

    %~  static void _not(void)

        Pops one item off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by a previous operation and preforms a bitwise NOT
        (ones complement) operation on it.  The result is then pushed onto
        the stack to be returned to the interpreter.

        This is similar in nature to C's ~ operator.

    %!  static void _notl(void)

        Pops one item off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by a previous operation and preforms a logical NOT
        operation on it.  The result is then pushed onto the stack to be
        returned to the interpreter.

        This is similar in nature to C's ! operator.

    %^  static void _xor(void)

        Pops two items off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and preforms a bitwise XOR
        operation on them.  The result is then pushed onto the stack to be
        returned to the interpreter.

        This is similar in nature to C's ^ operator.

    %+  static void _plus(void)

        Pops two items off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and adds the two values
        together.  The result is then pushed onto the stack to be returned
        to the interpreter.

    %-  static void _minus(void)

        Pops two items off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and subtracts the value of the
        second item pushed from the value of the first item pushed.  The
        result is then pushed onto the stack to be returned to the
        interpreter.

    %*  static void _star(void)

        Pops two items off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and multiplies them together.
        The result is then pushed onto the stack to be returned to the
        interpreter.

    %/  static void _slash(void)

        Pops two items off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and divides the value of the
        first item pushed by the value of the second item pushed.  The
        quotient of the result is then pushed onto the stack to be
        returned to the interpreter.

        There is no divide by zero exception here, in the case where the
        divisor is zero the result is zero.

    %m  static void _mod(void)

        Pops two items off the termninfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and divides the value of the
        first item pushed by the value of the second item pushed.  The
        remainder of the result is then pushed onto the stack to be
        returned to the interpreter.

        There is no divide by zero exception here, in the case where the
        divisor is zero the result is zero.

    %=  static void _equals(void)

        Pops two items off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and tests them for equality.
        A result of 0 (false) or 1 (true) is then pushed onto the stack to
        be returned to the interpreter.

    %>  static void _greater(void)

        Pops two items off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed thee by previous operations and tests that the item pushed
        first is greater than the item pushed second.  A result of 0
        (false) or 1 (true) is then pushed onto the stack to be returned
        to the interpreter.

    %<  static void _less(void)

        Pops two items off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by previous operations and tests that the item
        pushed first is less than the item pushed second.  A result of 0
        (false) or 1 (true) is then pushed onto the stack to be returned
        to the interpreter.

    %'  static void _tick(void)

        Reads the next character out of the format string and pushes that
        character onto the terminfo format stack.  The next character is
        then also parsed and discarded.  It is assumed to be a closing '
        character.

        The code does not verify that the format string is correct here as
        it is assumed that the terminfo compiler checks for such errors.

    %i  static void _i(void)

        Increments the values of the first two items in the terminfo
        parameter array by one.  This is done because ANSI terminals
        expect parameters to be 'one' based where as other terminals
        expect them to be 'zero' based.  Having this operator allows for
        all parameters to be passed in the same format.

    %s  static void _s(void)

        Pops the address of an application based ASCIIZ string (from your
        applications address space) off the terminfo format stack which
        must have been placed there by a previous operation and writes
        each character of that string out to the escape buffer.

    %l  static void _l(void)

        Pops the address of an application based ASCIIZ string (from your
        applications address space) off the terminfo format stack which
        must have been placed there by a previous operation and pushes a
        value equal to the length of what ever string is at this address
        onto the stack.

        In uCurses it is assumed that this string might be a UTF-8 string
        and the length returned is equal to the total number of bytes used
        by the string.  Characters that are UTF-8 encoded can be one, two,
        three or four bytes in length.

    %P  static void _P(void)

        Gets the address of the static or dynamic variable whose single
        character name is specified in the next character of the current
        format string and then pops the top item of the format stack into
        that address.

        This sets the specified variable to the value of the item on the
        stack.  Variables are retained across all format strings to be
        interpreted.

        Question for TED: Should the variables ever be zero'd and if so
        when?

    %g  static void _g(void)

        Gets the address of the static or dynamic variable whose single
        character name is specified in the next character of the current
        format string and pushes the value of that variable onto the
        format stack to be returned to the interpreter.

    %{  static void _brace(void)

        Parses the following characters of the current format string up to
        the closing } and interprets those characters as a decimal number.
        The value of this decimal number is pushed onto the stack to be
        returned to the interpreter.

    %?  void uC_noop(void)     performs no operation

        This format specifier is a no operation in uCurses.  It basically
        marks the start of a conditional.   If this should perform any
        actual operations interpreting a conditional I can not see what
        those might be.

    %t  static void _t(void)

        This format specifier will act on the condition given in the top
        item on the terminfo format stack.  It's job is to select which
        part of the format string following it should be interpreted based
        on the value of the aforementioned condition value.

        If the condition is true then this specifier will act as a no
        operation and interpretation will continue with the characters
        immediately following it.

        If the condition was false then this specifier will parse the
        current format string up to either the following %e or the
        following %; if there is no %e.  Interpretation will then continue
        from that point.

    %e  static void _e(void)

        This operator will scan the current format string for a
        terminating %; conditional.  It will do this by repeatedly parsing
        that string up to the next format specifier, what ever it may be.

        If that specifier is not the %; then this operation is repeated.

    %;  void uC_noop(void)     performs no operation

        This format specifier like %? above performs no actual operation.
        it's presence is used to mark a place where conditionals can scan
        to as needed.  It marks the end of said conditional.

    %d  static void _d(void)

        This format specifier will pop one item off the terminfo format
        stack which must have been placed there by a previous operation
        and will then write it out to the escape buffer as an ASCII string
        representation of its value in decimal.

        The value written out can be written in as many digits as it takes
        to represent it or as a hard fast mandated two or three character
        string with leading zeros if need be.  I am assuming that there
        are some crazy terminals out there that require certain values to
        be represented in a very specific way and this is how that is
        accomplished.

        The width here is based on the '2' or '3' prefix character (if
        any) that was parsed by the next_c() function documented below.

    %c  static void _c(void)

        Pops one item off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by a previous operation and emits that as a single
        character to the escape buffer.

    %p  static void _p(void)

        Pops one item off the terminfo format stack which must have been
        placed there by a previous operation and uses that as an index
        into the terminfo parameters array.  The value which always starts
        at 1 is first zero based.

        The indexed parameter is then pushed onto the stack to be returned
        to the interpreter.


2.2.3: The Beef
---------------

The following functions are the core of the format string parser.  They
interpret the various format specifiers and act on them appropriately.

    static char next_c(void)

        This helper function is called to parse the next character after
        having parsed a format specifiers % character.

        If the next character is either a '2' or a '3' then the next
        character after that is assumed to be a 'd'.  The digit value here
        is interpreted as a width prefix for emitting a decimal value via
        the above documented %d specifier.  It allows for %d, %2d and %3d
        specifiers which might output '1' or '01' or '001' for example.

        In this instance we save the width specifier for a 'one time use'
        and then parse the next character from the format string which
        would be the 'd' as stated above.

        If the next character was neither a '2' or a '3' then it is the
        name of some format specifier and we simply return that as is.

    static const uC_switch_t p_codes[]

        This is an array of uC_switch_t entries which contain an option
        character and a function vector.  This is used to direct the
        parser to the correct handler for the most recently parsed format
        specifier.

        I personally consider C's switch statements to be horrendously
        FUGLY and I see this as a much neater presentation.  It may be a
        fact that this code wont optimize as efficiently as an actual
        switch statement but...  err...  this is a text based user
        interface and that is going to be so horrendously slow (in
        computer terms not human) that this 'inefficiency' is literally in
        the noise.

        P.S. I hate code that looks like an unmade bed.

    static void specifier(char c1)

        This helper function has one purpose.  Given a format string
        specifier name (character) and using the above array, branch to
        the specific handler for that format specifier.

    API void uC_parse_format(const char *f)

        This public function parses a complete format string at a
        specified address and compiles the specific escape sequence
        associated with that format string into the escape buffer.  This
        format string may or may not also require parameters and if they
        are required they are assumed to already have been written to the
        format string parameters array.

        A format string is always an ASCIIZ string so a '\0' character
        marks the end of the format string.

    void uC_format(int16_t i)

        This function will locate a format string within the current
        virtual terminals memory mapped terminfo database based off of the
        index parameter passed to it.

        This is an index into the terminfo files strings section which is
        in turn an offset into the terminfo files string table section
        (where all the format strings live).

        Each operation to be performed within a terminal that has a format
        string (such as positioning the cursor, turning on bold, changing
        a color attribute etc) will have a pre-defined entry within the
        terminfo files string section at a pre-defined index.


2.2.4: uC_terminfo.h
--------------------

Within this header file there are numerous macros which reference the
above uC_format() function.  Each of these macros passes a hard coded,
well known terminfo string section offset to it.

These macros are used within this library to inline one or other of the
numerous escape sequences.  Some of these have public wrappers allowing
application developers to leverage them, most however do not.

Each of these macros has a name identical to the terminfo name for their
escape sequence with a 'ti_' prefix added.  Most are considered not part
of the public API and are only used internally (if at all).

2.2.5 uC_terminfo.c
-------------------

This file contains wrappers to the above terminfo macros giving the
application developer access to them.   Most of these have names
identical the terminfo format string name but with a uC_ prefix on that
name.  Others have names that describe their function better.

    API void uC_curoff(void)

        This function makes the terminals cursor invisible so it does not
        detract from the applications user interface.   This function is
        referenced by the uCurses initialization functions.

    API void uC_curon(void)

        This function makes the terminals cursor visible which would be
        necessary on exit from any uCurses application.  This function is
        referenced by the uCurses de-initialization functions.

    API void uC_clear(void)

        This function clears the console display and sets the cursor to
        the upper left of the display.  If there is currently an active
        screen then the state buffers of this structure is also erased
        and its cursor is also reset to top left.

    API void uC_hpa(int16_t x)

        HPA stands for "Horizontal Position Absolute".  This function
        moves the cursor to a specific X coordinate on which ever line the
        consoles cursor is situated.  This also moves the cursor within
        the current active screen to the same location.

    API void uC_cup(int16_t x, int16_t y)

        This function sets the terminals cursor position.   It moves the
        cursor to a specified X / Y coordinate within the terminal.  This
        also moves the cursor within the current active screen to the same
        location.

    API void uC_cud1(void)

        This function moves the terminals cursor down one line.  If the
        cursor is on the bottom line of the terminal this will affect a
        scroll on the display.   It also moves the cursor of the currently
        active screen down one line UNLESS it is on the bottom line.
        There is also no concept of scrolling the active screens contents.

    API void uC_home(void)

        This function moves the cursor to its home position of 0 / 0
        within the console.  It will also move the currently active
        screens tracked cursor to the same location.

    API void uC_cub1(void)

        This function moves the consoles cursor left one position.  If the
        cursor started at the left edge of the console then the cursor
        will be moved to the end of the line above.

        This also moves the currently active screens cursor left one
        position and will also wrap to the line above if need be.

    API void uC_cuf1(void)

        This function moves the consoles cursor right one position.  If
        the cursor was at the far right edge of the console then the
        cursor will be moved to the start of the line below.
        If the cursor was on the bottom line then the display will also be
        scrolled up.

        The active screens cursor location is also moved in a similar way
        but it will not be scrolled.

    API void uC_cuu1(void)

        This function will move the cursor up one line within the console
        unless it is already on the top line.  It will also move the
        currently active screens cursor up one line unless it was also on
        the top line of the screen.

    API void uC_dch1(void)

        This function will delete the character to the left of the
        consoles cursor location.  Doing this will move other characters
        to the right of that one left one position.

        It also moves the cursor of the currently active screen left one
        position.  It does not actually delete or move any characters on
        the line.

    API void uC_cud(int16_t n1)

        This function moves the consoles cursor down a specified number of
        lines.  If, during this operation the cursor is on the bottom line
        of the display then each cursor down operation here will instead
        scroll the console up one line.

        It will also move the currently active screens cursor down the
        same number of lines up to the bottom line of the screen but it
        will not scroll the screen.

    API void uC_ich(void)

        This function will insert a space into the consoles current screen
        line at its current cursor location.  All characters to the right
        of the cursor will be moved right.  The cursor itself does not
        move.

        This call does not affect the screen in any way.

    API void uC_cub(int16_t n1)

        This function moves the consoles cursor back the specified number
        of positions.  It will wrap the cursor to the end of the line
        above if it is at the far left edge of the console.

        It will also perform the same operation on the currently active
        screen.

    API void uC_cuf(int16_t n1)

        This function moves the consoles cursor forward the specified
        number of positions.  It will wrap the cursor to the start of the
        line below if it is moved beyond the far right edge of the console
        and potentially scroll the display.

        This will also perform the same operation on the currently active
        screen but will not scroll the screen.

    API void uC_cuu(int16_t n1)

        This function will move the consoles cursor up the specified
        number of lines or until the cursor reaches the top line.

        It will also perform the same operation on the currently active
        screen.

    API void uC_vpa(uint16_t y)

        VPA stands for "Vertical Position Absolute".  This function moves
        the consoles cursor to the specified Y coordinate.  It will also
        perform the same operation on the currently active screen.

    API void uC_cr(void)

        This function writes both the CR and the LF characters out to the
        console.  It also moves the currently active screens cursor to the
        start of the line below it unless it is already on the bottom
        line.

    API void uC_smkx(void)

        This function is documented in man 5 terminfo as placing the
        keypad in transmit mode.  I have no idea what that means but I
        have seen that the cursor UP and DOWN keyes can return different
        sequences depending on whether or not the keypad is in this
        mysterious mode or not.

        Placing the keypad in transmit mode allows the uCurses keboard
        handlers to recognize the cursor up and down keys using the
        format strings that are contained within the terminals terminfo
        database.   Not being in transmit mode prevents it from being able
        to do so.

    API void uC_rmkx(void)

        This function turns off the keypad transmit mode what ever that
        is.  See smkx above.


3: Terminal Attributes
----------------------

Once we have the ability to compile format strings into escape sequences
we can emit said escape sequences to modify character properties such as
foreground color, background color, bold, underline and reverse video etc.

uCurses attributes are stored in uC_attribs_t structures.  These hold the
various attributes which are used when writing characters into user
interface entities such as windows or the screen.

Supported attributes include foreground and background colors using a
normal palatalized value, a full 24 bit RGB value or a gray scale color.
The attributes structure contains flags which indicate which of these are
being used. The following list describes each supported flag...

    * ul         Characters are underline
    * rev        Characters are drawn in reverse video
    * bold       Characters are drawn in bold
    * rgb_fg     Characters have a 24 bit RGB foreground
    * rgb_bg     Characters have a 24 bit RGB background
    * gray_fg    Characters have a gray scale foreground
    * gray_bg    Characters have a gray scale background

    Note: uCurses does not support standout mode or that annoying flashy
    blinky text thing (ick).

While many terminals do support both 24 bit RGB and gray scale coloring,
no terminal that I know of has any format strings in their terminfo
databases to aid in the compilation of their specific escape sequences for
those color formats because they are not an officially recognized part of
the terminfo specification (yet?).

    Note: Actually, I think there are 7465728345 different specs and
    ncurses has to support all of them or people might get uppity.  I wont
    be supporting all of them because I get uppity too.

This means that applications compiled to use uCurses which make use of
these color formats will probably not act in a reliable manner across all
terminal types.

    I.E.  YMMV (tm)

With a greater understanding of the problem I might, in the future, be
able to fix this to a degree but I will rabidly reject the notion that I
must add 56435 different format strings for each of the intended terminal
types and add special needs duct tape code to arbitrate which of these is
the correct one to use.

    NOT happening!

If these features are one day added to the spec(s) they will probably also
be given a terminfo capabilities entry and applications could then decide
at run time which features were or were not supported and take appropriate
action.

    FYI: uCurses does not currently pay any attention to terminal
    capabilities.

As each character is written out to some user interface entity it gets its
own instance of the attributes structure along with that characters
encoded UTF-8 code point.  Every character in said entity therefore has
its own independent set of attributes.

The foreground and background colors for each character are entirely
independent of one another so each can be drawn using any of the above
stated color representations.

    Note: Not all escape sequences which are supported by a given virtual
    terminal will have an associated format string entry in their terminfo
    database and not all terminals support all escape sequences.  If a
    terminal does not support a given escape sequence then its string
    section entry for that item will be a -1 value (0xffff).

    For example, the Linux console does not have an "enacs" format string
    because the "alt char set" does not first need to be enabled to be
    used.

    P.S.  I stripped the alt char set handling out of uCurses many moons
    ago because I added UTF-8 support, totally abandoning uCurses being of
    any use within an ordinary every day run of the mill ho-hum Linux
    console (the Linux console support for UTF-8 characters is effectively
    non existent).

    Was that removal a mistake? Should I add it back in?


3.1: uC_attribs.c
-----------------

Emitting the escape sequences for enabling both foreground and background
RGB attributes requires a hard coded format string which may not be
applicable across all terminals.  Ditto gray scales.  These sequences are
'hard coded' into the following functions.

    static void rgb_fg(void)

        This function takes the Red, Green and Blue foreground entries out
        of the current attributes variable and stores them in the first
        three parameters of the terminfo format string parser.  It then
        has that parser interpret the hard coded format string contained
        herein.

        This will compile an escape sequence which, when written out to
        the terminal will set the console foreground color to the
        specified RGB values.

        This is known to work just fine in my terminal! (tm)

    static void rgb_bg(void)

        This function takes the Red, Green and Blue background entries out
        of the current attributes variable and stores them in the first
        three parameters of the terminfo format string parser.  It then
        has that parser interpret the hard coded format string contained
        herein.

        This will compile an escape sequence which, when written out to
        the terminal will set the console background color to the
        specified RGB values.

        See above! (tm)

    static void gray_fg(void)

        This function first adds 232 to the first parameter of the
        terminfo parser which will have been previously set to a value
        between 0 and 23 (the specific gray scale value requested) and
        then has the format string parser interpret the hard coded format
        string contained herein.

        This will compile an escape sequence to set the console foreground
        to the specified gray scale value.

    static void gray_bg(void)

        This function first adds 232 to the first parameter of the
        terminfo parser which will have been previously set to a value
        between 0 and 23 (the specific gray scale value requested) and
        then has the format string parser interpret the hard coded format
        string contained herein.

        This will compile an escape sequence to set the console background
        to the specified gray scale value.

    static void apply_fg(void)

        When any change has been made to the foreground color within the
        current attributes variable this helper function is called to
        arbitrate which escape sequences needs to be emitted in order to
        affect that change.

        This will either be one of the above rfb_fg() or gray_fg() calls
        or will simply be a call to one or other of the official terminfo
        functions to set a foreground color, setf() or setaf().

        If the terminal supports ANSI colors then the terminfo strings
        section will have an entry for the setaf format string.  If so
        then this is the escape sequence emitted here.

        If the terminal does not support ANSI colors the strings section
        entry for that format string will be -1.  In this case we simply
        assume that setf is supported (tm).

    static void apply_bg(void)

        When any change has been made to the background color within the
        current attributes variable this helper function is called to
        arbitrate which escape sequence needs to be emitted in order to
        affect that change.

        This will either be one of the above rgb_bg() or gray_bg() calls
        or will simply be a call to one or other of the official terminfo
        functions to set a background color, setb() or setab().

        If the terminal supports ANSI colors then the terminfo strings
        section will have an entry for the setab format string.  If so
        then this is the escape sequence emitted here.

        If the terminal does not support ANSI colors the strings section
        entry for that format string will be -1.  In this case we simply
        assume that setb is supported.

    if_apply_fg(uint8_t changes)

        This helper function is used to determine if any change has been
        made to the current attributes variable that requires an update to
        the foreground color.  Non color changes such as turning bold off
        (for reasons explained below) will mandate that even if the
        current foreground color has not been changed we must still update
        it (an annoyance).

        The 'changes' parameter here contains flags that indicate whether
        any non color attribute have been modified.  If any such
        modification exists which mandates an update to the foreground
        color or if the foreground color has actually been modified then
        this function will call the above apply_fg() function.

    if_apply_bg(uint8_t changes)

        This helper function is used to determine if any change has been
        made to the current attributes variable that requires an update to
        the background color.  Non color changes such as turning bold off
        (for reasons explained below) will mandate that even if the
        current background color has not been changed we must still update
        it. (STILL an annoyance).

        The 'changes' parameter here contains flags that indicate whether
        any non color attribute have been modified.  If any such
        modification exists which mandates an update to the background
        color or if the background color has actually been changed then
        this function will call the above apply_bg() function.

    apply_attribs(void)

        When modifications are made to the current attribs variable this
        code will determine what, if any escape sequences need to be
        emitted in order to affect those changes.  It first checks if any
        changes have been made to either the bold or reverse-video
        settings.

        Any changes to either of these will potentially necessitate a
        complete wipe of all colors and all attributes by emitting an sgr0
        (set graphics rendering) escape sequence followed by emitting the
        escape sequences of those attributes or colors we did not actually
        want to change!

        Turning off bold always requires a reinstatement because there is
        no escape sequence in terminfo to turn bold off, only on.  The
        only way to reliably turn bold off is to either hard code 278456
        different escape sequences for the 278456 (or so) different
        terminal types (assuming any of them actually have a bold off
        escape sequence) or.....  to simply hard reset then reinstate.

        Ditto reverse video.

        If any change to either reverse video or bold have been made and
        either of those changes is to turn that attribute off then this
        code will rip the rug out from under itself, reset all colors and
        attributes and then....  reinstate any attributes that were not
        meant to be changed.

        The code then determines if any changes were made to the underline
        attribute and if so then that attribute is updated.  If the above
        sgr0 was referenced there could be a tiny optimization made here
        in that we don't actually need to emit the sequence to turn
        underline off because the sgr0 will have already done that for us.

        Note: uCurses does not support flasy blinky text or standout mode.

        Interesting Note:  Translation: Rant Incoming! (tm):

            The single slowest thing you can do within terminal is to
            change character attributes.  For this reason, when updating
            the screen, uCurses will literally set ONE attribute then
            bounce the cursor all over the screen so it can update every
            single character that shares that ONE attribute.  It then
            moves to the next character which needs updating and sets that
            characters attributes etc etc loop till done.

            Every attribute change is written exactly ONE TIME, then we
            ping-pong the cursor all over the map because that is faster.

            Being forced to hard reset all attributes to affect one itsy
            bitsy change and then to reinstate all those other attributes
            that we actually wanted to keep is probably the single worst
            design decision the implementers of terminfo could have made.
            They SHOULD have implemented both ON and OFF escape sequences
            for *EVERY SINGLE* attribute.

            P.S. As we know, Some things make me uppity!


3.1.1: Modifying attributes variables
-------------------------------------

The following functions aid in the setting and updating of color
attributes.  They modify a specified attributes variable which can be
any instance of a uC_attribs_t structure such as is found in...

        * The global default attributes variable
        * The various attributes associated with a window
        * The various attributes associated with menus
        * A window or screen character cell
        * ... etc ...

    static uC_ti_attr_flags_t attr_add_flags(uC_ti_attr_flags_t flags,
        uint16_t bits)

        This helper function is used to modify the attribute flags used to
        indicate which color format is being used.  It ensures that no
        mutually exclusive setting can be selected.

        E.G.  If the foreground color is being changed from gray scale to
        RGB then this function will clear the flag indicating that a gray
        scale is being used.

    API void uC_attr_set_flags(uC_attribs_t *attribs, uint16_t bits)

        This public API function will turn on any given attribute within a
        passed in uC_attribs_t parameter.  Each attribute that is to be
        turned on is specified within the bits parameter to this function.

        Mutually exclusive settings will result in one or other of those
        settings being cleared.

    API void uC_attr_clr_flags(uC_attribs_t *attribs, uint16_t bits)

        This public API function will turn off any given attribute within
        a passed in uC_atrribs_t parameter.  Each attribute that is to be
        turned off is specified within the bits parameter to this
        function.

    void set_fg(uC_attribs_t *attr, uC_color_t color)

        This helper function is used to set a normal paletized foreground
        color within the specified attributes structure.

    void set_bg(uC_attribs_t *attr, uC_color_t color)

        This helper function is used to set a normal paletized background
        color within the specified attributes structure.

    void set_gray_fg(uC_attribs_t *attr, uC_colors_gray_t color)

        This helper function is used to set a foreground color within an
        attributes strcuture to a gray scale value.

    void set_gray_bg(uC_attribs_t *attr, uC_colors_gray_t color)

        This helper function is used to set a background color within an
        attributes strcuture to a gray scale value.

    void set_rgb_fg(uC_attribs_t *attr, uC_color_t r, uC_color_t g,
        uC_color_t b)

        This helper function is used to set a foreground color within an
        attributes strcuture to a 32 bit RGB value.

    void set_rgb_bg(uC_attribs_t *attr, uC_color_t r, uC_color_t g,
        uC_color_t b)

        This helper function is used to set a background color within an
        attributes strcuture to a 32 bit RGB value.


3.2 Terminfo database files.
----------------------------

The terminfo database files contain information about each terminal types
capabilities and supported escape sequences.  uCurses queries the current
environment for a $TERM variable to determine which terminal it is
running in and it will then attempt to load the terminfo file for that
specific terminal.

If it is not able find any terminfo file for the current terminal then
this is considered a critical error and the application will abort.

uCurses will look in the following directories for this file.

    * /usr/share/terminfo
    * /lib/terminfo
    * /etc/terminfo

I personally consider /lib/terminfo to be an utterly incorrect place to
put these files but that's where Debian places them (why?).  The terminfo
man pages also suggest that ~/terminfo might be a possiblity too but this
library does not check there as I consider it unsafe.

The following files are used to search for and load the correct terminfo
database file for the current console.

    static bool try_path(int i, const char *env_term)

        Attempt to open the current consoles terminfo file from one of the
        above stated directory paths.

        If the specified file is found this function will memory map it
        and return a true result.  If, during this operation uCurses
        encounters an out of memory error the application will abort.

        If the file is not found this function will return a false result.

    static void map_tifile(void)

        This function first attempts to read the $TERM environment
        variable to determine which terminal type the application is
        running in.  If this variable is not set uCurses will abort.

        If the environment variable is set then this function will search
        each of the above specified directories for a file with this name.
        Not finding this file in any of the above directories is a
        critical error and the application will abort.

        If no abort happens then the caller can assume the file was found
        and is now memory mapped.

    static void is_valid(void)

        This function verifies that the recently memory mapped terminfo
        file is valid.  It compares the terminfo files "magic" signature
        to known values.  If this entry is invalid we abort.

        This magic signature is in the files header and can be one of two
        values as follows...

            * 0x011a
            * 0x021e

        If it is the latter then this signifies that the numbers section
        within this terminfo file uses 32 bit entries instead of the old
        16 bit entries.

    void alloc_info(void)

        This function calls the above functions to memory map the current
        consoles terminfo database file and to verify its validity.  If
        the file is valid then pointer addresses are calculated to the
        various sections contained within that mapping.

        Note: Not all of these tables are utilized by this library but we
        still set pointers to them for possible future use.

        Pointers to The following sections are initialized.

            * Names section.
            * Bool section.
            * Numbers section.
            * Strings section.
            * String table section.

        uCurses is mainliy interested in the strings and string table
        sections.   The strings section is an array of offsets to format
        strings contained within the string table section.  The order of
        items in the strings section is well defined so the offset to a
        specific escapes sequence format string can easily be found.


3.3: uC_console_attribs.c
-------------------------

This file contains public API calls which set or clear the various
attributes on the terminal.

    API void uC_console_reset_attrs(void)

        This function writes an escape sequence out to the terminal that
        will reset its foreground and background colors to the uCurses
        defined defaults.   These can be changed.

    API void uC_console_set_fg(uC_color_t color)

        This function writes an escape sequence out to the terminal that
        sets its foreground color to the specified value.

    API void uC_console_set_bg(uC_color_t color)

        This function writes an escape sequence out to the terminal that
        sets its background color to the specified value.

    API void uC_console_set_gray_fg(uC_colors_gray_t color)

        This function writes an escape sequence out to the terminal that
        sets its foreground color to a specified gray scale value.

    API void console_set_gray_bg(uC_colors_gray_t color)

        This function writes an escape sequence out to the terminal that
        sets is background color to a specified gray scale value.

    API void uC_console_set_rgb_fg(uC_color_t r, uC_color_t g,
        uC_color_t b)

        This function writes an escape sequence out to the terminal that
        sets its foreground to a specified 24 bit RGB color.

    API void uC_console_set_rgb_bg(uC_color_t r, uC_color_t g, uC_color_t b)

        This function writes an escape sequence out to the terminal that
        sets is background to a specified 24 bit RGB color.

    API void console_clr_flags(uint16_t flags)

        This function writes all the escape sequences required to clear a
        specified set of flags which control things like bold, underline,
        reverse video being active.   Clearing certain flags and thereby
        modifying the state of the console can require multiple escape
        sequences be emitted to ensure that other attribute are not lost.

    void console_set_flags(uint16_t flags)

        This function writes all the escape sequences required to set a
        specified set of flags which control things like bold. underline,
        reverse video being active.   A flag being set will have the
        library write the specific escape sequences required to affect
        that change.

The following public API calls use the above functions to enable or
disable various attributes in the console.  Turning either underline mode
or bold mode off has some associated caveat's documented elsewhere here.

       API void uC_console_set_ul(void)

            This function writes the escape sequence which will turn on
            underline mode for all characters subsequently written to the
            terminal.

       API void uC_console_set_rev(void)

           This function writes the escape sequence which will turn on
           revers video mode for all characters subsequently written to
           the terminal.

       API void uC_console_set_bold(void)

           This function writes the escape sequence which will turn on
           bold mode for all characters subsequently written to the
           terminal.

       API void uC_console_clr_ul(void)

           This function writes the escape sequences which will turn off
           underline mode for the terminal.

       API void uC_console_clr_rev(void)

           This function writes the escape sequences which will turn off
           reverse video mode for the terminal.

       API void uC_console_clr_bold(void)

            This function writes the escape sequences which will turn off
            bold mode for the terminal.


4: Keyboard input
-----------------

Keyboard input from a terminal is not as simple as reading a single
character for every single key press.  Certain keys return entire escape
sequences as described above and the escape sequence returned by a certain
key on a certain terminal might not be the same sequence returned by the
same key on any other terminal.

For this reason, some (not all) key presses that return an escape sequence
will have an associated format string entry in the terminfo database for
that terminal.

    FYI:  Keyboard input in Linux / Unix terminals is an absolute
    NIGHTMARE.  Ancient technology is the albatross around the modern
    developers neck.  It is for this reason that VI uses escape colon
    shift F10 backspace F3 to enable overwrite mode and the like (pretty
    sure that's exactly what it uses).

    P.S. I believe Termcap was implemented by the original author of vi
    specifically to enable him to reliably interpret keyboard input on any
    of the then existing terminal types.   Termcap is the precursor to the
    more modern terminfo used here.

There is also the problem of being able to read and reliably recognize key
presses with or without any combination of control, alt, shift and meta.
Supporting all such key presses across all the various terminal types is
very much non trivial.  Partially because of the fact that any one of
those key presses could literally be hijacked by the desktop environment
or even the specific terminal the application is running within.

    P.S.  The way uCurses handles the keyboard is not as clean as I would
    like it to be and I am considering some changes but I am resisting
    changes that would necessitate making uCurses SUID root such as
    reading keyboard scan codes directly (tempting though!).

    It would be REALLY REALLY nice and helpful (hint hint) if the Linux
    kernel had an API to return flags for which modifier keys were
    currently pressed.   Pretty plzkthxbai?


4.1: uC_key_read.c
------------------

This source file contains all the code related to the reading of and
recognition of key presses.  All characters associated with a given key
press are written into a keyboard input buffer for later interpretation.
A pollfd structure is used to test if the file descriptor associated with
terminal input has any characters ready to read.

    API int8_t uC_test_keys(void)

        This function will return a result of zero if there are no
        characters ready to read from the terminals standard input file
        descriptor.  If there are any characters ready to read then this
        function will return a non zero result.

    static int8_t read_key(void)

        This helper function will repeatedly read the terminals standard
        input file descriptor until a valid character is returned.  This
        is somewhat jankey (no pun intended) because it could result in an
        infinite loop (tm).

        On success, this function returns the character read.

    void uC_read_keys(void)

        This call which is only internally visible to the library, will
        repeatedly read the terminals standard input file descriptor until
        there are no more characters left to read or the buffer becomes
        full.  All characters are saved to the keyboard buffer array and
        the number of characters read is saved in the num_k' variable.

        It is assumed that after having read one character from standard
        input, if there are still characters available to be read then
        every available character is associated with the press of a single
        key.  I.E.  We are reading a key sequence not multiple separate
        key presses.

        This may negate type ahead which might need to be revisited in the
        future?


4.2: uC_key_sequence.c
----------------------

When a key is pressed and that key press returns an escape sequence the
characters of that escape sequence are all saved to the keyboard input
buffer.

This code will then, interpret each terminfo format string associated with
keyboard input and compile its escape sequence into the escape buffer (the
same one used for output).

The compiled escape sequence is then compared with the one in the keyboard
input buffer.  If the escape sequence in the escape buffer is identical to
the escape sequence in the keyboard input buffer then we know exactly
which key was pressed.   If not, we try again till we run out of format
strings to try.

uCurses does not support every possible key press and I may add entries to
handle some of the missing items but even then, I still don't have a
reliable way of interpreting the infinite combinations of control, alt,
shift, meta plus key.  see above "pretty plzkthxbai".

    static void set_esc0(uint8_t c)

        This helper function is used to inject a single character key
        press into the terminfo escape sequence buffer and set the input
        length to one.  This is used internally to translate a key
        sequence into a single key value.

    static void kent(void)

        This helper function injects a hard coded 0x0a character (the
        enter key) into the terminfo escape sequence buffer to be compared
        with which ever key which was actually pressed.

    static void kbs(void)

        This helper function injects a hard coded 0x08 character (the
        backspace key) into the terminfo escape sequence buffer to be
        compared with which ever key was actually pressed.

        NOTE: The backspace key can actually return either 0x08 or 0x7f
        utterly independent of what value is specified within the
        terminals terminfo database.  In fact, the same terminal, in the
        same distribution can potentially return either of these values
        entirely based on which maintainer compiled it, what their mood
        was at the time or what specific planetary alignment existed at
        that time. UTTER FUCKING INSANITY!

        If a terminfo database specifies that a press of the backspace key
        returns 0x08 then it should damned well return 0x08 and *ONLY*
        0x08.  If the terminfo specifies 0x7f then it should return 0x7f
        and *ONLY* 0x7f.  PERIOD.  This REALLY needs to be fixed.

    static void kcuu1(void)   static void kcud1(void)
    static void kcub1(void)   static void kcuf1(void)
    static void kdch1(void)   static void kich1(void)
    static void khome(void)   static void kend(void)
    static void kcbt(void)    static void knp(void)
    static void kpp(void)     static void kf1(void)
    static void kf2(void)     static void kf3(void)
    static void kf4(void)     static void kf5(void)
    static void kf6(void)     static void kf7(void)
    static void kf8(void)     static void kf9(void)
    static void kf10(void)    static void kf11(void)
    static void kf12(void)

        Each of these helper functions references one of the many macros
        within the uC_terminfo.h source file.  They will each have their
        specific keys format string interpreted and their associated
        escape sequence compiled into the escape buffer.

        The contents of this buffer can then be compared with the escape
        sequence which was previously read into the keyboard input buffer
        so that uCurses can recognize which key was pressed and take the
        appropriate action based on that key press.

    void (*k_table[])(void)

        This is an array of function pointers to each of the above helper
        functions.  This table is woefully incomplete.  Each entry in this
        array will be called in sequence so that the escape sequence for
        each supported key can be compared against which ever key was
        actually pressed.  Loop till match found or loop done (tm).

    int16_t match_key(void)

        This internal function is used to compare compiled escape
        sequences for each supported key with the sequence which was
        previously read into the keyboard input buffer.  This code does
        not use the 'unsafe' memcmp function but instead computes a
---
        FNV-1a
---
+++
        FNV-1
+++
        hash for each if the items to be compared.  This may very well be
        just as unsafe.

        If a match is found the index of that match is returned.  If not
        then a result of -1 is returned.


4.3: uC_key_table.c
-------------------

The tables contained within this source file allow the application
developer and the library itself to define behaviors for each supported
'special' key press.  The menu system for example interprets the F10 key
as the menu activation key when menus are enabled.

For most of these key presses the default action is to do absolutely
nothing.  Each application can however allocate their own table and modify
(via API calls) each supported key's action.  There may or may not be keys
which should be supported but which are not.  I can neither confirm nor
deny!

    API void uC_set_key(int8_t c)

        This public API call can be used by user applications to inject a
        key into the keyboard input buffer as though an actual key press
        had occurred.  It can also be used to translate a key sequence
        into some single character value to be returned to the user
        application. (The widgets key loop does this!)

    API void uC_flush_keys(void)

        This public API call is used to erase the keyboard input buffer.

    static void k_bs(void)    static void k_ent(void)
    static void k_cbt(void)

        These static functions are used internally to translate certain
        well known keys which occasionally return different values into a
        consistent result.  They can also be used to simply add a given
        key press value which was matched against as an escape sequence.
        The enter key for example.

    uC_key_handler_t *default_key_actions[]

        This table contains function vectors to the default handlers for
        each key press which uCurses currently recognizes.  Application
        developers can allocate their own tables and modify the actions
        within them based on application context.

    API uC_kh_t uC_alloc_kh(void)

        This public API call is used to allocate a new keyboard function
        table.  There can only be one active keyboard table at a time so
        when a new one is allocated the previous one is returned and must
        be saved.

        When the current application context has finished or is exited
        the saved handler must be reinstated or bad things could happen!

    API void uC_release_kh(uC_kh_t saved)

        This public API function is used to release an allocated key table
        and to restore the saved key table.

        For example, a widget handler can release its own keyboard table
        and restore the previously active table when the widget editor is
        closed.

    API uC_key_handler_t *uC_set_key_action(key_index_t index,
        uC_key_handler_t *action)

        This public API call is used to set a specific keys action within
        the applications allocated table of keyboard handlers.

    API uint8_t uC_key(void)

        This public API call is the main keyboard input handler for the
        uCurses library.  When called it will remain blocked until a
        single character (non escape sequence) key is pressed.  That
        single key is returned to the caller.

        All keys with recognized escape sequences are handled internally
        and any which are not recognized are silently dropped.  The
        operation performed when an escape sequence is recognized is user
        definable on a key by key basis and can be modified at will.

        A key that returns an escape sequence can thereby be redefined
        to return a single character.  E.G. the F1 key could have a
        handler defined to return (for example) 0x81 as a single key
        press to be interpreted in the normal way by the application
        code.


5: The Screen
-------------

While the terminfo parser is the heart of the uCurses library (for both
input and output), the screen structure is the forward facing visual part
of it.  A screen structure is an array of UTF-8 characters and their
individual associated attributes.  All windows, widgets and menu related
thingies are drawn into the screen buffers to be later blasted out to the
terminal for display.

At the time of writing there can be only one active screen but I may in
the future add the ability to have multiple screens and allow flipping
between them in a way similar to how the Amiga did it (shiny!).  This
however is not very high on my list of potential todo's because it is
antithetical to the purpose of the library remaining as resource friendly
as possible.

This could also be added as a build option but to be honest I actually do
not like adding too much of that.  Conditional compilation can turn
simple, well presented sources into a horrendous, unreadable cluster
($&^%*#)! and I absolutely reject sources that look like that, even my
own.

The screen structure contains the following entities, all of which are
described in detail later in this document ...

    * A list of application defined windows to be drawn into the screen
      character buffers.
    * A list of status windows attached to the screen.
    * A list of widget view groups attached to the screen.
    * A pointer to an attached menu bar.
    * A pointer to which ever window currently has focus.
    * Variables specifying the screens dimensions.
    * Variables specifying the current cursor location within the screen.
    * Pointers to the screens current and previous character buffers.


5.1: uC_screen_ctrl.c
---------------------

This source file contains all the code needed to create, destroy and
control a screen structure.  It also contains a few functions specific to
the control or placement of windows because putting them in here
simplified the Gordian knot of circular include dependencies.

    int16_t scr_alloc(uC_screen_t *scr)

        The screen structure passed in here is a previously allocated and
        partially initialized structure which will describe the entire
        current and previous states of the user interface.

        This function allocates two state buffers equal in size to the
        dimensions of the console.  These dimensions are contained within
        the passed in structure so we do not have to query the console
        here.

        The allocation of these two state buffers is this functions only
        purpose in life.  It was originally factored out to allow the JSON
        parser access to it and (equally importantly) because it gave an
        anonymous block of code a descriptive name.

            This IMHO is the primary reason why anonymous nested blocks
            should almost always be factored out into separate NAMED
            functions.  This applies no matter how trivial that block is
            but unfortunately, modern "engineers" are almost never taught
            to factor their code properly.

            If they did so it would absolutely make their code much more
            readable.  As a general rule I do try to do this but sometimes
            I too get lazy :/

    API uC_screen_t *uC_scr_open(int16_t width, int16_t height)

        This is the main API call used to create a new screen.  The width
        and height parameters should be equal to the dimensions of the
        console within which the screen is to be displayed.  Their not
        being equal is undefined behavior (patent pending).

        When a screen is opened it is automatically set as the current
        active screen.  There can (for now?) be only one.

   API void uC_scr_close_view_groups(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This public API function is called as part of the user interface
        tear down procedure.  Any active widget view groups with their
        associated views and associated widgets will be de-allocated by
        this call.

        I.E.  The entire widget interface goes bye bye.

        Making this function public allows the developer to initiate a
        complete tear down of the widgets interface without affecting any
        other part of the UI.  This could be used to generate new widgets
        on the fly based on application context.

        Technically this belongs within the widget sources but putting it
        here means that the widget functions outside this source file do
        not need any knowledge of the screen structures.

    API void uC_scr_close(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This public API call closes a screen and de-allocates all entities
        associated with it.  This includes the backdrop window (explained
        below), all application windows, the menu bar and any pull downs,
        and any widget view groups, associated views and widgets.

    void init_backdrop(uC_screen_t *scr, uC_window_t *win)

        This function initializes a backdrop window and attaches it to the
        screen.  This windows attributes are hard coded into the uCurses
        library but can be modified by the application developer.

        The window always uses hard coded foreground and background
        colors, its border is always a double line border and also uses
        hard coded foreground and background colors.

        Application developers can simply tweak any settings they don't
        like prior to the screen being drawn!

        A backdrop window in uCurses is used as a way to put something
        visually behind all user application windows.  Early on I found
        that if there was no backdrop then any user application windows
        that were attached to that screen and animated (moved around)
        would leave trails behind them.  Having a backdrop window as I
        call it prevents this from happening.

        This window is just like any other window and can have text or
        other entities drawn into it.  It is *always* drawn first,

    API void uC_scr_add_backdrop(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This public API function adds a backdrop window to a specified
        screen.  Every aspect of a backdrop window is hard coded into this
        library.  Its color attributes, its border style its border
        attributes etc are all pre-defined.

        A backdrop window if it exists is always the first thing drawn
        into a screen view buffer.  All other entities are drawn over the
        top of it.  (think painters algorithm).

        If the end user wishes to modify any of the attributes of this
        window they can pull it's structures address out of the screen
        structure and use the usual API calls to modify it's attributes
        and appearance.

    int16_t win_chk_pos(uC_window_t *win, uC_screen_t *scr, int16_t x,
        int16_t y)

        This function is used to verify that a window placement would be
        lawful.  No part of any window can be placed outside the bounds of
        the screen it is to be attached to, including any border that it
        may have.

    API void uC_scr_win_attach(uC_screen_t *scr, uC_window_t *win)

        This pubic API call attaches a specified window structure to a
        specified screen structure and thereby makes it visible.
        Windows can be added to and removed from the screen at will and
        this can be used to push a window to the back or pop it to the
        front of the view order.  Windows drawn first are overlapped by
        windows that are drawn later.

    API void uC_scr_win_detach(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call will detach a window from a screen if any
        that it is currently attached to.  The window structure is not
        destroyed by this action.  If it is not currently associated with
        any screen structure then this call is a silent nop.

    API void uC_scr_win_tab_next(uC_screen_t *scr)

        uCurses allows windows to have input focus and for application
        context to be set accordingly.  Each window could have its own
        dedicated keyboard handler.

        This public API call is used to "tab select" the next window in
        the specified screens window list.   The tab selection order is
        entirely independent of the window draw order.


5.2: Drawing it all
-------------------

Drawing the screen is a multi step process.  The first step is to emit a
sgr0 escape sequence to obliterate any and all attributes associated with
the previous screen draw.  This was added to account for the case where
any characters in the previous frame were underlined and said underlined
characters were drawn last, leaving that state active.  This ensures that
underline or any other potentially incorrect attributes are made inactive.

Next the screens backdrop window (if any) is drawn into the screens state
buffer followed by all the user application windows.

If the application makes use of pull down menus these are drawn next, then
any status windows are drawn.

    Note: A status window is an optional 'one line' high window which can
    be used to display status information such as current line in a file
    being edited or your characters current map coordinates in a game etc
    etc, you decide!.  I use the status window as a debug printf type aid
    as I develop this library (tm)!

Finally, all widget view groups, their associated views and widgets are
drawn.

At this stage the screens state buffer contains the state of every
character and their associated attributes which now all need to be blasted
out to the console as fast as possible.


5.3: Updating the console
-------------------------

The console update is performed by two nested loops called inner_update()
and outer_update().  When the outer loop is called it scans the new screen
state buffer and compares it with the previous state buffer.  If any
character is found to have been modified during the most recent update
then that characters index is passed to the inner update loop described
below.

The outer update loop is repeated until every modified character found has
been passed to the inner loop.

The inner_update() function will first emit the escape sequences required
to set the attributes associated with the character at the index passed to
it.

It will then, scan the screen state buffers from the current (passed in
index) to the end for any modified characters that share those attributes.
For each character found it will then, if necessary, emit the escape
sequence to move the cursor to that characters location.  It will then
emit the character itself.

During this scan, if it finds a modified character with a different
attribute it will remember this characters index and return it to the
outer loop function (only the first one found).  This allows the outer
loop to skip all the unmodified characters the inner loop just scanned
over and continue from the first known modified character with a new set
of attributes.

If the inner loop scans to the end of the display without finding any
further modified characters then it will return an index of zero to the
outer loop informing it that the entire update is now complete.

The escape buffer will now contain every single escape sequence and every
single character for this new state of the display.  These are now written
out to the terminal with a call to the Linux write() function.

This means that most of the time only one single (slow) 'user space' to
'kernel space' transition will be required to update the ENTIRE display.

    P.S.  If, during the compilation of those escape sequences the escape
    buffer is filled then it will need to be flushed prior to compiling
    any new escape sequences so..  In fact, the screen update could take
    two or (unlikely) more calls to write().  Ignore the man behind the
    curtain!

    P.P.S.  I could track this to see how many calls to write are actually
    made but this should be a development option and not to be included in
    production code.

    Should I add said tracking here for the application developer?


5.4: uC_screen_draw.c
---------------------

The functions in this file perform the above console update procedure.
They write all windows, menus, widgets or other thingies into the screen
state buffer and then write that new state out to the console for display.

    static void draw_win_name(uC_window_t *win)

        When a window is drawn it may or may not have a border of some
        type.  If it has a border it may or may not also have a name.  If
        it has a name then that name will be drawn into a small part of
        the area taken up by said border characters.  (top left ish).

    void scr_draw_win(uC_window_t *win)

        This function draws one window and its contents and any border
        that may or may not be present into its associated screen state
        buffer.  The window structure itself contains a pointer to the its
        parent screen.

        If either the window pointer passed to this function or the screen
        pointer within the referenced window structure is NULL then this
        function will silently perform no action.

    static void scr_draw_windows(uC_list_t *list)

        This function will, given a pointer to a list of windows, draw
        every window contained within that list.  If the list is empty
        this function will silently preform no action.

    static void scr_cup(uC_screen_t *scr, int16_t x, int16_t y)

        This function moves the console cursor location to a new position
        within by emitting ta 'cup' escape sequence.  If however the
        console cursor position (which is tracked) is already in the
        desired new location then this function silently preforms no
        operation (I hope!).

    static bool scr_is_modified(uC_screen_t *scr, uint16_t index)

        This function compares the contents of the indexed cell within the
        current (new) state of the screen buffers with the cell at the
        same index within the screens previous state buffer.

        If either the cells attributes or the cells UTF-8 encoded
        character have been modified then this function returns a true
        result.  If neither the attributes nor the character have been
        modified this function returns a false result (no update required
        for this char).

    static void new_attrs(uC_attribs_t a)

        If, during the screen update procedure a new set of attributes is
        required, those attributes are written into the global attributes
        variable and a call is made to apply_attribs().  This will write
        an escape sequence to the output buffer to affect any selected
        attributes changes.

    static void _scr_emit(uC_screen_t *scr, int16_t index, cell_t *p1,
        cell_t *p2)

        This somewhat complex function writes a single character out to
        the terminal.  Care must be taken to ensure that the cursor
        location is correctly tracked because emitting one character can
        in fact advance the cursor more than one space on the display.
        This is because UTF-8 characters can be multi width.

            Note: uCurses currently only supports characters that are
            either one wide or two wide...  possibly on the todo to fix).

        This code also accounts for conditions where a single width
        character is emitted over the top of one or other half of a double
        width character.  This prevents glitches that make the screen look
        very messy but doing so makes the code look messy.  You cant win!

    void scr_emit(uC_screen_t *scr, int16_t index)

        Writes the character at the current index out to the escape
        buffer.

        If the character to the left of this one is a double width
        character then this cell will be marked as a DEADC0DE which is not
        to be emitted.

        After writing the character (or not) the data at the current index
        within the current state is written into the screens previous
        state buffer.  This marks that cell as having been updated.

        I.E.  The contents of both buffers at the specified index will now
        be the same.

    static int16_t inner_update(uC_screen_t *scr, int16_t index,
        int16_t end)

        Given the index of a character that has been modified since the
        last time the screen was drawn this function will set the new
        characters attributes by emitting all escape sequences associated
        with them.  This includes setting foreground and background colors
        and turning bold, underline or reverse video on or off for that
        character.

        This function then proceeds to scan for and write every single
        modified character within the screens state buffer that shares
        these new attributes, relocating the cursor as required.

        The inner loop will save the index of the first modified character
        that it finds that does not share these attributes and will return
        that index to the outer loop function documented below.  If the
        inner loop scans all the way to the end of the screen without
        finding any such character it will return an index of zero
        indicating to the outer loop that the update is complete.

    static void outer_update(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This function loops over every character within the current state
        buffer of the screen and compares it with the character in the
        previous state buffer at that same index.  If this character has
        been modified its index is passed to the inner_update() function
        which will update that character and every other character that
        shares identical attributes.

    API void uC_scr_draw_screen(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This public API function is what an application would call to
        update the display of the entire screen state.  Applications will
        need to call this function on an as needed basis as it is not
        called automatically.

        It first emits an sgr0 escape sequence to the escape buffer to
        ensure that no unwanted attributes are currently active.  It then
        draws the screens backdrop window followed by all user application
        windows.

        If the user application has menus defined and active they are
        drawn next followed by any active status windows.  Finally, prior
        to pushing all the changes to the terminal any active widgets are
        drawn into the buffers.

        Once the entire new state of the display has been drawn into the
        screen state buffers they are blasted out to the escape sequence
        buffer by calling the outer_update() function.

        The final operation here is to write the entire terminal escape
        sequence buffer out to the terminal by calling
        uC_terminfo_flush().


5.5: uC_screen_ctrl.c
---------------------

This file contains all the code used to control every aspect of the screen
structure.  It has code to open (allocate and initialize) a new screen
structure, close a screen (tear down a screen and everything associated
with it) and to add and remove windows to / from it.

    int16_t scr_alloc(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This function is slightly miss-named, it does not allocate a
        screen structure and in fact it requires an already existing,
        partially initialized screen structure to be passed to it.

        This function allocates the two state buffers where the current
        state and previous state of the screen are stored.  The current
        state buffer contains every character and their associated
        attributes for the current (or new) state of the display.

        The other buffer contains the state of every character and its
        associated attributes of the previous frame.  After drawing a new
        frame into the 'current' state buffer we can compare each cell of
        that to the associated cell in the previous state.

        This enables the screen update to skip any and all unmodified
        characters between the current (new) state and previous (old)
        state, dramatically improving the efficiency of the update
        procedure.

    API uC_screen_t *uC_scr_open(int16_t width, int16_t height)

        This public API function is used to crate a new screen structure.
        The width and height of this should be equal to the dimensions of
        the terminal within which it will run.  Their not being the same
        is undefined behavior (tm).

        After allocating space for the structure it is initialized with
        its own width and height and then its state buffers are
        allocated.  If the state buffer allocation fails the structure
        itself is de-allocated and a NULL is returned.  Otherwise the
        address of the structure is returned.

    static void close_view_groups(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This function only exists if widgets have been enabled in the
        build. It is part of the interface tear down procedure performed
        when a screen is closed.

        It scans through every widget view group attached to the screen
        and if there are any widget views within any of these view groups
        then that view is itself scanned for attached widgets.  All
        attached widgets are closed (de allocated) then their parent view
        group is closed and when all views associated with a group have
        been closed the view group itself is closed.

        This procedure is repeated until all view groups associated with
        the screen have been closed.

    API void uC_scr_close(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This public API function closes a screen and any entities that are
        associated with it.  It first de allocates the two state buffers
        associated with it and then all of the following are all closed
        (de allocated) if they exist.

            * All windows attached to the screen.
            * All widget view groups, views and widgets.
            * Any menu bars and associated pull down and menu items.

        At this time the screen structure itself is de allocated.  If the
        screen we just closed was the currently active screen then the
        'active_screen' variable is nulled out to prevent erroneous access
        to the destroyed structures.

    void init_backdrop(uC_screen_t *scr, uC_window_t *win)

        This helper function is used to allocate and initialize a backdrop
        window.  This window is treated separately from user application
        windows but in reality is no different from them.  This windows
        configuration however is pre-defined.  It is always created the
        same size as the current screen, always has a double line border
        and all attributes are set to pre-defined defaults.

        If any of these configurations are not to the developers liking he
        can always modify them later.

        The backdrop window is always drawn first on a screen update so
        any user application windows and other entities will always be
        drawn over the top of it.  This window was implemented to allow
        user application windows to be animated on the display.  Without
        it, any window that moves across the screen will leave trails
        behind.

    API void uC_scr_add_backdrop(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This public API function is used to create a backdrop window and
        to associate it with the specified screen.  The user has no
        control over any of the configuration items at the time of
        creation but can always go in and tweak things later if they so
        desire (and know how }:)

    API void uC_scr_win_attach(uC_screen_t *scr, uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call is used to attach a specified window to a
        specified screen.  If the specified window is already attached to
        any other (or the same screen) it is first detached from there.

        This would allow windows to be moved from one screen to another if
        multiple screens are ever implemented.  It also allows for a
        window that is currently being overlapped by other windows to be
        popped to the front of the view (makes it the last window drawn on
        the next update).

    API void uC_scr_win_detach(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call is used to detach a specified window from its
        parent screen and remove it from the view.  This call does not
        destroy the detached window or alter it in any way.


6.0: The Window
---------------

The window structure is where application developers draw almost
everything they want displayed on the screen.  These are subsequently
drawn into the screen as described above.

A window has a configurable set of flags used to define how all text and
other items should be drawn within it and how the window should look and
behave.   The following flags are defined...

    * uC_WIN_BOXED      The window has a border
    * uC_WIN_LOCKED     The window is scroll locked
    * uC_WIN_NAMED      The window has a display name
    * uC_WIN_FILLED     The window is filled with its fill character
    * uC_WIN_FOCUS      The window currently has input focus

Windows can have any dimensions and be located anywhere on the screen but
no part of any window can be situated outside the bounds of the screen.  A
window can be larger than a screen but in that case it cannot be attached
to it (made visible).

The window structure contains the following elements.

    * An allocated array for its character contents
    * A pointer to which ever screen it is attached to
    * A 32 bit hash of its name
    * An assigned blank / fill character which might not be a space
    * Variables giving its dimensions
    * Variables giving its location within its parent screen
    * The windows tab selection order
    * Variables giving the current cursor location within the window
    * A variable giving the windows border type
    * A pointer to the windows display name
    * Variables giving various attributes for various window entities.

When a window is initially created it does does not have position.  Prior
to attaching it to the screen it must be given position and care must be
taken to ensure that the above limitations are catered to.  A border for
example is not counted as part of a window so if there is a border around
a window then that windows lowest legal coordinates will be X = 1, Y = 1.

Using the public APIs to set a windows position ensures that these
requirements are not violated however uCurses does not have any code to
"automatically" lay out a display.  The addition of such algorithms would
add a significant amount of code to the library.


6.1: uC_window_ctrl.c
---------------------

This source file contains some of the functions used to create, control
and manipulate windows.  There are also a few within the uC_screen_ctrl.c
source file because placing them here would require circular include
dependencies that I am not a huge fan of.

    int16_t win_alloc(uC_window_t *win)

        This function allocates the backing store buffer for a window.  It
        was factored out to allow the JSON parser access to its functions
        and because it also gives an otherwise anonymous block a name.

    API uC_window_t *uC_win_open(int16_t width, int16_t height)

        This public API call is where application developers create a new
        window.  Every aspect of a window has a system wide default except
        for its width, height and position which the application developer
        can select.

        Once a window has been created all of those aforementioned
        defaults such as color attributes, border style, border attributes
        etc can be overridden by the developer.

        The code here first attempts to allocate a buffer for the window
        structure itself and if successful it will then apply all those
        defaults to it and call the above function to allocate its backing
        store.

        If all is successful the address of the window structure is
        returned, allowing the application developer to perform said
        overrides and attach it to a screen at any desired (but lawful)
        position therein.

    API void uC_win_close(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API function is used to destroy a window.  It will
        de-allocate the windows backing store and the window structure
        itself.

        If the window being closed is currently attached to a screen then
        it is first detached from that screen and thereby removed from its
        draw order.   Closing a window does not automatically un-draw it.

    API void uC_win_push(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call is used to move a window to the start of its
        parent screens draw order.  This will, on the next screen update,
        cause that window to be drawn immediately after the backdrop).  It
        could therefore be overlapped by other windows drawn into the
        screen.

        The related pop function was removed from the library because this
        operation can be performed by simply reattaching a window to a
        screen it is already attached to because this operation first
        detaches the window before reattaching it.

        Which ever window was most recently attached to the screen is
        always drawn last!

    API int16_t uC_win_set_pos(uC_window_t *win, int16_t x, int16_t y)

        This public API call is used to position a window within its
        parent screen.  If that window is not currently associated with a
        screen or if either of the specified coordinates are less than
        zero then this function will return a failed result.

        If after the requested placement of the window no part of that
        window would be located outside the bounds of the associated
        screen then the window is moved to the new location and this
        function will return success.

    API void uC_win_set_flag(uC_window_t *win, win_flags_t flag)

        A window structure contains a number of flags used to control its
        appearance or behavior which this public API function will set.

        The flags are as follows...

            * uC_WIN_BOXED       The window has a border
            * uC_WIN_LOCKED      The window is scroll locked
            * uC_WIN_FILLED      The window is filled with some character
            * uC_WIN_FOCUS       The window has focus.

       The window having focus selects between one of two different border
       attributes allowing a visual indication of its status.

       The fill character can be any UTF-8 code point but defaults to the
       space character (0x20).

    API void uC_win_clr_flag(uC_window_t *win, win_flags_t flag)

        A window structure contains a number of flags used to control its
        appearance or behavior which this public API function will clear.

        The flags are as follows...

            * uC_WIN_BOXED      The window has a border
            * uC_WIN_LOCKED     The window is scroll locked
            * uC_WIN_FILLED     The window is filled with some character
            * uC_WIN_FOCUS      The window has focus.

       The window having focus selects between one of two different border
       attributes allowing a visual indication of its status.

    API void uC_win_set_border(uC_window_t *win, uint16_t border_type,
        uC_attribs_t bdr_attrs, uC_attribs_t focus_attrs)

        This public API call is used to give a window a border or to
        change its border type.  It is also used to set the borders
        attributes (focused and non focused).

---
    API void uC_win_set_name(uC_window_t *win, uint8_t *name)
---
+++
    API void uC_win_set_name(uC_window_t *win, const char *name)
+++

        This public API call is used to change the display name of a
        specified window.   If that window has a border then this name
        will be written into the top left corner of that border when the
        window is drawn.

    API void uC_win_set_focus(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call is used to give a specified window focus.
        The tracked tab selection order is for the screen is also updated.


6.2: uC_window_attr.c
---------------------

This source file contains public API functions to both set and clear the
various attributes that can be associated with a window or its borders.

These functions were all factored out of their original source file into a
separate one because they are all functionally related to each other and
doing so helped reduce the size of that original file making it easier to
manage.  No "Wall of text crits you for 50000! You're dead!"

    API void uC_win_set_bold(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call turns the bold attribute on for the specified
        window.  Any characters subsequently written out to the window
        will be drawn in bold.

    API void uC_win_clr_bold(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call turns the bold attribute off for the
        specified window.  Any characters subsequently written out to the
        window will not be drawn in bold.

    API void uC_win_set_bdr_bold(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call turns the bold attribute on for the specified
        windows border characters.  The next time this window is drawn
        into the screen its border characters will be drawn in bold.

    API void uC_win_clr_bdr_bold(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call turns the bold attribute off for the
        specified windows border characters.  The next time this window is
        drawn into the screen its border characters will not be drawn in
        bold.

    API void uC_win_set_rev(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call turns the reverse video attribute on for the
        specified window.  Any characters subsequently written out to the
        window will be drawn in reverse video.

    API void uC_win_clr_rev(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call turns the reverse video attribute off for the
        specified window.  Any characters subsequently written out to the
        window will not be drawn in reverse video.

    API void uC_win_set_bdr_rev(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call turns the reverse video attribute on for the
        specified windows border characters.  The next time this window is
        drawn into the screen its border characters will be drawn in
        reverse video.

    API void uC_win_clr_bdr_rev(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call turns the reverse video attribute off for the
        specified windows border characters.  The next time this window is
        drawn into the screen its border characters will not be drawn in
        reverse video.

    API void uC_win_set_ul(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call turns the underline attribute on for the
        specified window.  Any characters subsequently written out to the
        window will be drawn with an underline.

        This attribute is not supported for window borders because...
        reasons, and don't be silly!

    API void uC_win_clr_ul(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call turns the underline attribute off for the
        specified window.  Any characters subsequently written out to the
        window will not be drawn with an underline.

    API void uC_win_set_fg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t color)

        This public API call sets the foreground color for the specified
        window.  Any characters subsequently written out to the window
        will be drawn using this foreground color.

    API void uC_win_set_bg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t color)

        This public API call sets the background color for the specified
        window.  Any characters subsequently written out to the window
        will be drawn using this background color.

    API void uC_win_set_gray_fg(uC_window_t *win, uC_colors_gray_t color)

        This public API call sets the foreground color for the specified
        window to a gray scale value.  Any characters subsequently written
        out to the window will be drawn using this gray scale value for
        its foreground color.

    API void uC_win_set_gray_bg(uC_window_t *win, uC_colors_gray_t color)

        This public API call sets the background color for the specified
        window to a gray scale value.  Any characters subsequently written
        out to the window will be drawn using this gray scale value for
        its background color.

    API void uC_win_set_rgb_fg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t r,
        uC_color_t g, uC_color_t b)

        This public API call sets the foreground color for the specified
        window to a 24 bit RGB color.  Any characters subsequently written
        out to the window will be drawn using this RGB value for its
        foreground color.

    API void uC_win_set_rgb_bg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t r,
        uC_color_t g, uC_color_t b)

        This public API call sets the background color for the specified
        window to a 24 bit RGB color.  Any characters subsequently written
        out to the window will be drawn using this RGB value for its
        background color.

    API void uC_win_set_bdr_fg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t color)

        This public API call sets the foreground color for the speccified
        windows border.  The next time this window is drawn its border
        characters foreground will be drawn using this color.

        These attributes only apply when said window does not have focus.

    API void uC_win_set_bdr_bg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t color)

        This public API call sets the background color for the specified
        windows border.  The next time this window is drawn its border
        characters background will be drawn in this color.

        These attributes only apply when said window does not have focus.

    API void uC_win_set_bdr_gray_fg(uC_window_t *win,
        uC_colors_gray_t color)

        This public API call sets the foreground color for the specified
        windows border to a gray scale value.  The next time this window
        is drawn its border characters foreground will be drawn in this
        gray scale color.

        These attributes only apply when said window does not have focus.

    API void uC_win_set_bdr_gray_bg(uC_window_t *win,
        uC_colors_gray_t color)

        This public API call sets the background color for the specified
        windows border to a gray scale value.  The next time this window
        is drawn its border characters background will be drawn in this
        gray scale color.

        These attributes only apply when said window does not have focus.

    API void uC_win_set_bdr_rgb_fg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t r,
        uC_color_t g, uC_color_t b)

        This public API call sets the foreground color for the specified
        windows border to a 24 bit RGB value.  The next time this window
        is drawn its border characters foreground will be drawn in this
        color.

        These attributes only apply when said window does not have focus.

    API void uC_win_set_bdr_rgb_bg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t r,
        uC_color_t g, uC_color_t

        This public API call sets the background color for the specified
        windows border to a 24 bit RGB value.  The next time this window
        is drawn its border characters background will be drawn in this
        color.

        These attributes only apply when said window does not have focus.

    API void uC_win_set_focus_fg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t color)

        This public API call sets the foreground color for the specified
        windows focused border.  The next time this window is drawn while
        it has focus its border characters foreground will be drawn in
        this color.

    API void uC_win_set_focus_bg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t color)

        This public API call sets the background color for the specified
        windows focused border.  The next time this window is drawn while
        it has focus its border characters background will be drawn in
        this color.

    API void uC_win_set_focus_gray_fg(uC_window_t *win,
        uC_colors_gray_t color)

        This public API call sets the foreground color for the specified
        windows focused border to a gray scale value.  The next time this
        window is drawn while it has focus its border characters
        foreground will be drawn in this gray scale.

    API void uC_win_set_focus_gray_bg(uC_window_t *win,
        uC_colors_gray_t color)

        This public API call sets the background color for the specified
        windows focused border to a gray scale value.  The next time this
        window is drawn while it has focus its border characters
        background will be drawn in this gray scale.

    API void uC_win_set_focus_rgb_fg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t r,
        uC_color_t g, uC_color_t b)

        This public API call sets the foreground color for the specified
        windows focused border to a 24 bit RGB color.  The next time this
        window is drawn while it has focus its border characters
        foreground will be drawn in this color.

    API void uC_win_set_focus_rgb_bg(uC_window_t *win, uC_color_t r,
        uC_color_t g, uC_color_t b)

        This public API call sets the background color for the specified
        windows focused border to a 24 bit RGB color.  The next time this
        window is drawn while it has focus its border characters
        background will be drawn in this color.


6.3: uC_borders.c
-----------------

Window borders are drawn directly into a screen around a window.  They are
not counted as being physically part of that windows draw field.  This
means that application developers can, after setting border style and
attributes, ignore them entirely.  Of course, they must still ensure that
no part of the border would be drawn outside the bounds of the screen or
bad things will happen.

This file contains all the code used to draw borders around windows.  It
also contains functions to draw boxes within windows.  Boxes are simply a
way to draw a bounding box around areas within a window, they are not sub
windows.

Borders are drawn one row at a time.  First the top row is drawn, then
each row between the top and bottom row, then, finally the bottom row of
the border is drawn.

The following arrays contain the UTF-8 code points for each border
character.  They also contain the characters which can be used to draw
joined vertical or horizontal separators within windows.

    border_t bdr_single[]    ┏┓┗┛━┃┣┫┳┻╋
    border_t bdr_double[]    ╔╗╚╝═║╠╣╦╩╬
    border_t bdr_curved[]    ╭╮╰╯─│├┤┬┴┼

        Horizontal and vertical separators have not been implemented for
        window borders and probably never will be because borders are
        outside the windows draw field.

        The intent is to eventually add the code to draw them within boxes
        which are described below.  While this is on the todo and would be
        quite trivial to implement I am somewhat reluctant to add the code
        to the library because it is already significantly larger than I
        ever wanted it to be.

    border_t *const borders[]

        This array holds pointers to each of the above arrays.  The order
        in here is per the uC_border_type_t enumeration.

    static void draw_char(uC_window_t *win, int16_t cx, int16_t cy,
        int32_t code, int16_t force)

        This function draws one single UTF-8 border character directly
        into the screen state buffer.  It first selects which attributes
        should be applied when drawing this character based on whether or
        not the window has focus.  It then draws the character itself.

        Care is optionally taken here to ensure that visual glitches do
        not occur when the drawn character overlaps one or other side of a
        multi width character.

    static void draw_top_bottom(uC_window_t *win, int32_t c1, int32_t c2,
        int32_t c3, int16_t cy)

        This function is used to draw both the top and bottom rows of a
        border.  It has three parameters passed to it for each of the
        three characters associated with that line.  The left corner
        character, the right corner character and the central characters.

        The left and right characters must account for potential visual
        glitches where they may overlap multi width characters already
        present in the screen.  The central characters within the line do
        not need to worry about this at all.

    static void draw_mid_row(uC_window_t *win, int32_t c1, int32_t c3,
        int16_t cy)

        This function draws every horizontal row of the window between the
        top and bottom rows.  The vertical characters at the left and
        right edges are drawn directly into the screen but none of the
        central characters of the row are touched.  This is where the
        windows actual contents is (or will be) drawn.

    void win_draw_borders(uC_window_t *win)

        This function draws a complete border around a window if, and only
        if that window has been given a border.

    API void win_draw_box(uC_window_t *win, uint16_t x, uint16_t y,
        uint16_t width, uint16_t height, uC_border_type_t bdr_type,
        uC_attribs_t box_attrs)

        This public API function draws a box of a specified dimension
        within a window.  The width, height and location of this box
        within the window are passed in as parameters.  It is undefined
        behavior for a box to not fit entirely within the specified
        window.  The border type and attributes are also passed in.

        There is no concept of one item overlapping another inside a
        window so there is no need for these functions to account for
        potential visual glitches.  Boxes also never have 'focus' so only
        one set of attributes are applicable.


7: Status windows
-----------------

A status window is a one line high window that can be placed at any
location on the screen but which is usually placed either on the top line
of the screen within a menu bar, or on the bottom line of the screen,
possibly within the border of any backdrop window.

A status window can be used to display any information an application
developer can think of.  I use them as a way to display debug information
while developing uCurses.

A screen can have any number of status windows associated with it.

Status windows are also a build option so they can be excluded entirely
from the uCurses build if they are not needed.  Removing them from the
build will save a small amount of space on your target.


7.1: uC_status.c
----------------

    API uC_window_t *uC_add_status(uC_screen_t *scr, uint16_t width,
        uint16_t xco, uint16_t yco)

        This public API call opens a new one line high window of the
        specified width and locates said window at the specified screen
        coordinates if and only if said coordinates do not violate any of
        the uCurses window placement restrictions.

        On success this function returns the address of the status windows
        structure.  On failure it returns NULL.

    API void uC_clr_status(uC_window_t *win)

        This public API call will simply clear the specified status window
        for later drawing into.

    API void uC_set_status(uC_window_t *win, char *s)

        This public API call is used to draw an existing string into the
        specified status window.  Application developers can allocate
        their own status buffer and sprintf any information they want in
        that buffer before calling this function.


8: Menus
--------

Pull down menus in uCurses are very simple.  The root of the menu system
is the menu bar.  While you could have more than one defined, only one of
them can be active and on a screen.

The menu bar structure contains the following elements.

    * A window which contains the menu bar contents.
    * An X coord within the window where the next pull down item will go.
    * A variable stating whether the menu bar is active or not.
    * A variable giving the index of which ever item within it is active.
    * A count of the total number of pulldown items associated with it.
    * An arry of currently associated pulldown items.
    * Various attributes which menu elements will be drawn with.

A menu bar is a container for a number of pull down menu items.  The only
limitation on how many items there can be is how many you can fit in the
horizontal space available within the bar.  The bar itself is a one line
high window equal in width to the screen.  Each pull down item has a name
and that name is displayed in the bar.

The structure of a pulldown item contains the following elements...

    * A name which is displayed in the menu bar.
    * A variable giving the width of the widest item name.
    * A variable giving the index of the currently selected item.
    * A flags variable (only one flag so far defined)
    * A list of menu items associated with the pulldown.
    * A pointer to a window which is created when this pulldown is active.
    * Various attributes which define how elements within it are drawn.

Each pull down menu can have a number of menu items but these are not
displayed unless their parent pull down is activated.  When activated a
window is opened whose width is equal to the widest menu item and whose
height is equal to the item count within that pull down.  There is no
concept of a scrollable pull down menu.

A pulldown menu item structure has the following elements...

    * A pointer to the menu items name
    * A flags variable (only one defined so far)
    * A pointer to a function to be executed on selection of this item.
    * A shortcut key associated with this item (not implemented yet?)

The text drawn into a menu bar can be drawn in one of three color
attributes, active, inactive or disabled.

When a pull down menu is activated a window is created and the name of
each item within that pull down is drawn into that window.  As with the
menu bar, each menu item can be drawn in one of three color attributes,
active, inactive or disabled.

The menu system itself is in control of which item is currently selected
but the application developer must enable or disable pull down menus and
menu items manually based on application context.  The menu system itself
plays no part in this.

The values for each of these color attributes is hard coded into the menu
system and assigned as each entity (pull down or menu item) is created.
If these wonderful colors are not to your liking you can always modify
them.

The above "only one flag defined so far" is used to disable and re-enable
a pulldown menu or a pulldown menu item.


8.1 uC_menu_bar.c
-----------------

    static void pd_set_attr(int16_t i, pulldown_t *pd, uC_attribs_t *p,
        menu_item_t *item)

        This function is used when drawing the names of the menu items
        within a pull down menu window.  It selects which of the three
        attributes should be used to draw the current item based on
        whether the item is selected, not selected or disabled.

    void draw_pd(pulldown_t *pd)

        This function is used to draw all menu items into a pull down
        menus window.  Each item is drawn in one of the above three
        mentioned color attributes.

    static void bar_set_attrs(int16_t i, menu_bar_t *bar, uC_attribs_t *p,
        pulldown_t *pd)

        This function performs a similar function to the above pd_set_attr
        function but is used to set the attributes for the menu bar items.
        It is however so similar I am confused as to why there are two
        functions!

    static void bar_draw_text(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This function is used to draw the names of each pull down menu
        item into the menu bar window.  The attributes for each item are
        set by the above function.

    static void pd_close(pulldown_t *pd)

        This function is part of the pull down menu tear down procedure.
        It de-allocates each menu item structure within a single pull down
        menu, closes the pull down menus window and then de-allocates that
        pull down menu structure.

    static void bar_close_pds(menu_bar_t *bar)

        This function is also part of the pull down menus tear down
        procedure.  It closes (de-allocates) all pull down menus and all
        menu items within each of these.

    API void uC_menu_bar_close(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This public API call is the application developers interface to
        destroying a pull down menu.  It will close and de-allocate any
        menu bar associated with the specified screen.  It calls the above
        functions to de-allocate all pull down menus and all menu items
        attached to the bar.

        It then closes the menu bars window and de-allocates the menu bar
        structure itself.

        This can be used to activate and deactivate various menu bars
        based on application context.  For example, it might be possiblle
        for an application to activate different menus based on which
        window within it has focus.

    static void init_bar(uC_screen_t *scr, uC_window_t *win,
        menu_bar_t *bar)

        This function initializes a newly opened menu bar structure and
        its associated window.  It scroll locks the window and initializes
        its default blank character.  It then initializes the menu bars
        attributes to the 'semi' hard coded defaults and attaches that
        menu bar to the specified screen.

    API int32_t uC_menu_bar_open(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This public API function is how application developers open a new
        menu bar.  The bar is allocated, its window is opened and the bar
        is initialized.

        If any part of this procedure fails all allocated entities are
        freed and a result of -1 is returned.  If no problems were
        encountered a result of 0 is returned.

    void scr_update_menus(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This function is part of the menu control loop.  It updates the
        display of any active pull down menus.  It is called by the screen
        update loop in uC_screen_draw.c.


8.2: uC_menu_pulldown.c
-----------------------

    static pulldown_t *pd_find(uC_screen_t *scr, char *name)

        This helper function is used to find a specific pull down menu
        item based on its name.  It is used by the following functions
        which either enable or disable a pull down menu.

    API void uC_pd_disable(uC_screen_t *scr, char *name)

        This public API function will search the specified screens pull
        down menus for a pull down with the specified name.  If this item
        is found it will be marked disabled.  Once disabled the pull down
        menu cannot be activated or even selected until it is re-enabled.

    API void uC_pd_enable(uC_screen_t *scr, char *name)

        This public API function will search the specified screens pull
        down menus for a pull down with the specified name.  If this item
        is found it will be marked as enabled.  Once enabled it can be
        activated when selected.

    int32_t bar_create_pd_win(uC_screen_t *scr, pulldown_t *pd)

        This function opens a new window for an activated pull down menu.
        The window is created with a width equal to the widest item within
        the pull down menu and a height equal the the item count for that
        menu.

        The window is then given a single line border with rounded corners
        and is marked as scroll locked.  The foreground and background
        colors for this border are also set here.

    API int32_t uC_menu_new_pd(uC_screen_t *scr, char *name)

        This public API will allocate and initialize a new pull down menu
        structure with the specified name and attach it to the menu bar
        associated with the specified screen.

        If the allocation fails it will return a result of -1.  If it is
        successful a result of 0 is returned.


8.3: uC_menu_item.c
-------------------

    static void init_item(pulldown_t *pd, menu_item_t *item,
        char *name, menu_fp_t fp, uint16_t shortcut)

        This function is used to initialize a new menu item structure.  It
        adds the item to a pull down structure, sets the display name,
        function vector address and keyboard shortcut.

        It also keeps track of the widest item added to the pull down
        which is used to set the width of its window when it is activated.

    static int32_t new_item(pulldown_t *pd, char *name, menu_fp_t fp,
        uint16_t shortcut)

        This function is part of the following function to create a new
        menu item.  This function will allocate and initialize a new menu
        item structure unless the pull down menu it is to be associated
        with is full.

        On success it returns a result of 0, otherwise it returns a result
        of -1.

    API int32_t uC_menu_new_item(uC_screen_t *scr, char *name,
        menu_fp_t fp, int16_t shortcut)

        This public API function will create a new menu item and add it to
        the bottom of the most recently created pull down menu.

        It first verifies that the specified screen is not null and that
        it has a non null menu bar.  It then verifies that there is a
        pulldown menu on the bar to add the item to.

        On success this function will return a result of zero.  On failure
        it will return a result of -1.


8.4: uC_menu_key.c
-------------------

    static void redraw_pulldown(menu_bar_t *bar)

        This function will redraw the currently active pull down menu
        after a menu key has been pressed.

    static void menu_activate(void)

        This function will toggle the active state of the currently
        selected pull down menu.  If the pull down menu is being activated
        it will be drawn into the screens state buffer.  Otherwise any
        currently active pull down will have its window closed.

    static void to_prev_menu_item(pulldown_t *pd)

        This function will deselect the current pull down menu item and
        select the one immediately above it.  If the currently selected
        item is the top item then selection wraps round to the bottom of
        the pull down menu.

    static void to_next_menu_item(pulldown_t *pd)

        This function will deselect the current pull down menu item and
        select the one immediately below it.  If the currently selected
        item is the bottom item then selection wraps round to the top of
        the pull down menu.

    static void next_pd(menu_bar_t *bar)

        This function deselects the currently selected pull down menu and
        selects the one immediately to its right.  If the currently
        selected pull down is the one furthest to the right then selection
        wraps around to the first pull down on the left.

    static void prev_pd(menu_bar_t *bar)

        This function deselects the currently selected pull down menu and
        selects the one immediately to its left.  If the currently
        selected pull down is the one furthest to the left then the
        selection wraps around to the last one on the right.

    static void menu_up_down(int dir)

        This function will move the pull down menu item selection either
        up or down within the pull down menus window.  If the item to be
        selected is disabled it is skipped.  A check is made to ensure
        that this procedure does not perform an infinite loop.

        Only Chuck Norris could do those:  RIP!

    static void menu_left_rt(int dir)

        This function will move the pull down menu selection either left
        or right on the menu bar.  If the item to be selected is disabled
        it is skipped.  A check is made to ensure that this procedure does
        not perform an infinite loop.

    static void menu_cr(void)

        This function will close the currently open pull down menu and
        execute the currently selected items function vector.

        If there is no menu bar associated with the active screen then a
        0x0a (enter) key is returned to the application.

    static void menu_up(void)     static void menu_down(void)
    static void menu_left(void)   static void menu_right(void)

        These four functions are the keyboard handlers for the cursor keys
        when a pull down menu is activated.

    API void uC_menu_init_keys(void)

        This public API function initializes the keyboard function tables
        for the pull down menu system.


9: Widgets
----------

Widgets were a surprisingly complex problem for me to solve.  I wrote the
code for them numerous times over the course of a few years and I was
never even slightly happy with what I had produced.  This time, I think I
can live with it because while there is room for improvement, the
implementation does not just make my teeth itch looking at it.  It will do
for now!

uCurses does not support every possible type of widget that you might find
in a more complete user interface.  For example, there is currently no
implementation for slidy scrolly types of widget and widget views can
only scroll in the vertical direction.

uCurses currently supports the following types of widget...

    * uC_WIDGET_BUTTON
    * uC_WIDGET_RADIO
    * uC_WIDGET_CHECK
    * uC_WIDGET_TEXTBOX

Both the radio button and the check box widgets can have one of the
following styles...

    uC_RADIO_CHECKBOX        ☐  ☑
    uC_RADIO_XBOX            ☐  ☒
    uC_RADIO_BOX             □  ▣    There are also numerous other
    uC_RADIO_BIGBOX          □  ■    styles which could be added
    uC_RADIO_SMALLBOX        ▫  ▪    here
    uC_RADIO_DIAMOND         ◇  ◈
    uC_RADIO_UP_TRIANGLE     △  ▲
    uC_RADIO_DN_TRIANGLE     ▽  ▼
    uC_RADIO_LT_TRIANGLE     ◁  ◀
    uC_RADIO_RT_TRIANGLE     ▷  ▶
    uC_RADIO_UP_SMALL        ▵  ▴
    uC_RADIO_DN_SMALL        ▿  ▾
    uC_RADIO_LT_SMALL        ◃  ◂
    uC_RADIO_RT_SMALL        ▹  ▸

In uCurses all widgets must be part of a view and all views must be
contained within a view group.  A view may only contain one type of
widget.  The view structure contains the following entities...

    * A flags variable
    * A list of widgets associated with this view
    * A pointer to the currently selected widgets node structure
    * A name string
    * Variables giving the dimensions of the view.
    * Variables giving this views location in its parent window.
    * A tab sequence number for this entire view if it is scrollable.
    * An index to the top item in this view if it is scrollable
    * The current cursor index within this view.
    * Various attributes for entities drawn within this view.

The following flags are defined for widget views...

    * uC_VIEW_BOXED      The view has a border
    * uC_VIEW_NAMED      The view has a name to be displayed in its border
    * uC_VIEW_SCROLL     The view is scrollable

A view group is a window just like any other.  It is used as a container
for associated widget views.  It can contain any number of views of any
type.  A view group structure contains the following elements.

    * A pointer to its parent window.
    * A list of views associated with this group.
    * A flags variable for this view. (only one defined)

If the view group window has a border then that border can be used as a
visual indication for when some widget within it has focus.  The view
group can also have a name displayed within its border allowing the
application developer to give some description of the groups
associativity.

A widget can only have focus if it is contained within the view that has
focus and where that view is contained within the view group that has
focus.

The application developer can assign *ANY* tab focus order on any widgets
within any views within any view groups on the display.  The only
limitation here is that the tab order numbering must start at 1 and have
no gaps.

If however, a view is defined as scrollable (can contain more widgets than
will fit in the vertical space assigned to it) then the tab selection
order of the first widget within that view is controlling.  The view
itself controls which widget within it actually has focus.

The focus selection of all other widgets is controlled by the widget
engine based on the developer defined order.


9.1: uC_wigets.c
----------------

    uC_widget_t *create_widget(uC_widget_type_t type, char *name,
        uint16_t sequence, uint16_t xco, uint16_t yco, uint16_t width,
        uC_attribs_t attrs, uC_attribs_t focus)

        This function is used to create a new widget.  The widget can be
        one of four types as follows...

            * uC_WIDGET_BUTTON
            * uC_WIDGET_RADIO
            * uC_WIDGET_CHECK
            * uC_WIDGET_TEXTBOX

        The name is what would be drawn on the widget itself or in the
        case of a textbox to the left of the edit area.  The sequence
        number is used to select the widgets tab selection order within
        the current display.  The tab selection order is entirely up to
        the application developer but the sequence must start at 1 and
        have no gaps.

        The coordinates are relative to the widgets parent view and the
        widget can be assigned both a normal set of attributes and a
        focused set of attributes.


9.2: uC_widget_view.c
---------------------

    API uC_widget_view_t *uC_widget_view_create(char *name,
        uint16_t width, uint16_t height, uint16_t xco, uint16_t yco,
        uC_attribs_t attrs, bool scroll)

        This public API call is the application developers means of
        creating a new widget view.  A widget view is a container for a
        group of related widgets of the same type and may be defined as
        scrollable but scrolling only happens in the vertical direction.

        When creating a new view you can also give it an optional name but
        this name will only be displayed if the view is later given a
        border.

        The coordinates passed to this function are relative to the view
        group (window) which this view is to be associated with.

        If this view is to be scrollable the width and height specified
        here are the viewable dimensions of this view, not how many
        widgets can be associated with it.

    API void uC_widget_view_add_border(uC_widget_view_t *view,
        uC_border_type_t bdr_type, uC_attribs_t bdr_attrs)

        This public API call is used to give an already created view a
        border.  If the view has a name then adding this border will make
        that name visible within the border area.

        The border may be any of the border types that can be given to
        windows.

    API bool uC_widget_view_add_widget(uC_widget_view_t *view,
        uC_widget_t *widget)

        This public API call is used to attach a widget to a widget view.
        Any number of widgets can be added to a view as long as they will
        visually fit within the assigned view space and they are all of
        the same type.

        If the view is scrollable the limit is 64k (insanity).

    API void uC_widget_view_remove_widget(uC_widget_view_t *view,
    uC_widget_t *widget)

        This publivc API call is used to detach a wiget from a view.  The
        view itself is not closed even if the removed widget is the only
        one that was attached.

    void widget_close_view(uC_widget_view_t *view)

        This function is used during screen tear down and will destroy the
        specified view.  If there are any widgets associated with this
        view then they are also destroyed.

    static void view_up(void)

        For a scrollable view this function will move the focus up one
        line within the view and will scroll the view if necessary.
        The selection will not wrap within the view if it is at the top
        thereof.

    static void view_down(void)

        For a scrollable view this function will move the focus down one
        line within the view and will scroll the view if necessary. The
        selecction will not wrap within the view if it is at the bottom
        thereof.

    void widget_scroll_view(uint8_t k)

        This function is used by the widget keyboard handler to scroll a
        view in either direction based on which key was pressed.


9.3: uC_widget_view_group.c
---------------------------

    API uC_widget_vg_t *uC_widget_vg_create(char *name,
        uint16_t width, uint16_t height, uint16_t xco, uint16_t yco,
        uC_attribs_t attrs)

        This public API call is used to create a new view group.  A view
        group is a container for any number of widget views that will fit
        within it.   Creating a view group also creates a new window where
        any view attached to the group will be displayed.

        The view group can also have a name which will be displayed within
        the windows border if one is given to it later.

        This window can also have any text drawn into it if the
        application developer desires.   To do this the developer would
        simply extract the window structures address from the view group
        structure and use the normal uCurses API calls to draw text into
        it.

    API void uC_widget_vg_add_border(uC_widget_vg_t *vg,
        uC_border_type_t bdr_type, uC_attribs_t bdr_attrs,
        uC_attribs_t focus_attrs)

        This public API call is used to give a border to a view groups
        window.  The developer can assign both focused and unfocused
        attributes to this border.

    API void uC_widget_vg_attach(uC_screen_t *scr, uC_widget_vg_t *vg)

        This public API call is used to attach a view group to a specified
        screen structure.  Once the view group is attached, all widgets
        within all widget views associated with the attached group will be
        displayed on the next update.
+++
        If no widget currently has focus when this call is made then the
        widget with sequence number 1 is automatically given focus.  This
        ensures that newly attached view groups are immediately keyboard
        navigable without the caller needing to explicitly set focus.
+++

    API void uC_widget_vg_detach(uC_screen_t *scr, uC_widget_vg_t *vg)

        This public API call is used to detach a specified view group from
        a screen structure.  The detached view group is not destroyed but
        will no longer be drawn into the screen.

    API void uC_widget_vg_close(uC_screen_t *scr, uC_widget_vg_t *vg)

        This public API call is used to close a given view group.  Closing
        the view group destroys all views and all widgets associated with
        them and will remove the group from the specified screen
        structure.

        Once all views have been destroyed and the group detached from the
        screen the view group is then also destroyed.

    API void uC_widget_vg_add_view(uC_widget_vg_t *vg,
        uC_widget_view_t *v)

        This public API call is used to associate a specified view with a
        view group.


9.4: uC_widget_draw.c
---------------------

This file contains functions to draw all widgets within all views within
all view groups associated with a specified screen.  While the individual
widget types are actually drawn within their respective source files (see
below) the calls to those functions all happen in here.

This code will draw all views and all widgets within those views into the
window associated with each view group attached to the specified screen.
The window is then itself drawn into that screen state buffers.

For each view the code will first draw any borders around it if there is
one and within that border will draw its name if there is one.

If the view is not defined as being scrollable then all widgets within it
are then drawn into body of the bounding box drawn above.  If it is
scrollable then the widgets which are drawn into this area will depend on
the scroll position within the view.

If the widgets being drawn are either checkbox or radio buttons then the
graphic for each of these can be any of the following vertical pairs for
their on and off states.

    Off: ☐ ☐ □ □ ▫ ◇ △ ▽ ◁ ▷ ▵ ▿ ◃ ▹
    On:  ☑ ☒ ▣ ■ ▪ ◈ ▲ ▼ ◀ ▶ ▴ ▾ ◂ ▸

The following functions perform the entire drawing operation...

    static void draw_widget(uC_window_t *win, uC_widget_t *widget,
        uint16_t xco, uint16_t yco)

        This static function will draw the specified widget into the
        specified window at the specified location.   The widget can be
        any one of the following types.

            * uC_WIDGET_BUTTON
            * uC_WIDGET_RADIO
            * uC_WIDGET_CHECK
            * uC_WIDGET_TEXTBOX

    static void draw_view_box(uC_window_t *win, uC_widget_view_t *view)

        This static function draws a box around the area within a view
        groups window where a view is about to be drawn.  Not all views
        need have a box but where one exists the views name if any will
        then also be drawn here.

    static void draw_scrollable(uC_window_t *win, uC_widget_view_t *view)

        This static function draws all visible widgets within a scrollable
        view into the window of a view group.  Which widgets are visible
        depend on the scroll position within the view.

    static void draw_nonscrollable(uC_window_t *win,
        uC_widget_view_t *view)

        This static function draws all widgets within a non scrollable
        view into the window of a view group.  These widgets can be
        positioned anywhere within the view area within the view group.

    static void draw_view(uC_window_t *win, uC_widget_view_t *view)

        This static function draws all visible widgets within a specified
        view within the specified view groups window.  This will draw
        either a scrollable view or a non scrollable view either with or
        without a bounding box around the view.

    static void draw_views(uC_widget_vg_t *vg)

        This static function will draw all views within the window of the
        specified view group.  No checks are made to ensure that the
        associated views or their associated widgets will fit within the
        view groups window.   It is undefined behavior if they do not.

    void draw_view_groups(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This function is part of the main screen display update procedure.
        It will drawn all view groups into the specified screen with all
        their associated views and widgets.


9.5: uC_widget_button.c
-----------------------

    static void draw_btn_txt(uC_window_t *win, uint16_t x, uint16_t y,
        uint16_t width, char *name, char key)

        This static function draws the text name into the button.  If the
        button has a shortcut character defined the first instance of that
        character within the name is underlined.

    void draw_button(uC_window_t *win, uC_widget_t *widget,
        uint16_t x, uint16_t y)

        This function simply draws a button with its button text.  If the
        button also has a shortcut key the first instance of that letter
        within the text is underlined.

    uint8_t handle_button(uint8_t k)

        This function is called as part of the widget keyboard handler
        when a button has focus.  If the key pressed was the enter key and
        the button has a shortcut character then that shortcut character
        is returned to the application code.

        If the enter key is pressed but the button does not have a
        shortcut character then the buttons tab sequence is written into
        the address pointed to by the buttons select pointer and the enter
        key is returned to the application code.

    API uC_widget_t *uC_widget_button_create(uint16_t sequence,
        uint16_t *select, char *name, char letter, uint16_t width,
        uint8_t xco, uint8_t yco, uC_attribs_t attrs, uC_attribs_t focus)

        This public API call is used to create a new button widget.  The
        sequence value passed in here is the widgets tab selection order.

        The letter parameter is the shortcut key associated with the
        button.  If the the button has no shortcut key specified then
        there must be a select parameter specified.  If neither are
        specified then a press of this button will be effectively
        un-selectable.


9.6: uC_widget_check.c
----------------------

    void draw_check(uC_window_t *win, uC_widget_t *widget,
        uint16_t x, uint16_t y)

        This function is called as part of the widget draw procedure and
        draws a single checkbox widget using the selected UTF-8 characters
        for both on and off states.  The checkbox will be drawn with
        either it's focused or unfocused attributes.

        The widgets state bit is taken from a 32 bit variable pointed to
        by the *select element within the widget structure.  The widget
        also contains a variable giving which bit within the select is
        associated with this checkbox.

    uint8_t handle_check(uint8_t k)

        This function is part of the widget keyboard handler and is called
        when a key is pressed while a checkbox has focus.  If the key
        pressed was the space key then the bit within the *select element
        of the widget given in the bit element of that structure will be
        toggled either on or off.

        Any number of bits within *select may be turned on in this way.

    API uC_widget_t *uC_widget_check_create(uint16_t sequence,
        uint32_t *select, uint16_t bit, char *name, uC_radio_type_t type,
        uint16_t width, uint16_t xco, uint16_t yco,
        uC_attribs_t attrs, uC_attribs_t focus)

        This public API call is used to create a new checkbox widget.  The
        name given here will be drawn to the right of the selected
        checkbox graphic specified in the type parameter.

        The *select parameter is a pointer to a 32 bit variable which will
        contain the state of up to 32 checkbox widgets.  The specific bit
        within that variable for this widget is specified in the bit
        parameter here.


9.7: uC_widget_radio.c
----------------------

Radio buttons are visually very similar to the checkbox widget except
where there can be any number of set buttons within the checkbox view only
one widget may be set within a radio button view.

    Note: A checkbox view can have more than 32 buttons assigned to it but
    this will split buttons across multiple *select variables and the code
    here will not ensure that only one bit across all *select variables is
    set.  It will only ensure that only one bit within the *select of the
    currently selected button will be set.

    void draw_radio(uC_window_t *win, uC_widget_t *widget,
        uint16_t x, uint16_t y)

        This function is called as part of the widget draw procedure and
        draws a single radio button widget using the selected UTF-8
        characters for both on and off states.  The radio button will be
        drawn with either it's focused or unfocused attributes.

        The widgets state bit is taken from a 32 bit variable pointed to
        by the *select element within the widget structure.  The widget
        also contains a variable giving which bit within the select is
        associated with this radio button.

    uint8_t handle_radio(uint8_t k)

        This function is part of the widget keyboard handler and is called
        when a key is pressed while a radio button has focus.  If the key
        pressed was the space key then the bit within the *select element
        of the widget given in the bit element of that structure will be
        toggled either on or off.

        If the bit is toggled to an on state then any other bits within
        *select which are in the on state will be turned off.

    API uC_widget_t *uC_widget_radio_create(uint16_t sequence,
        uint32_t *select, uint16_t bit, char *name, uC_radio_type_t type,
        uint16_t width, uint16_t xco, uint16_t yco,
        uC_attribs_t attrs, uC_attribs_t focus)

        This public API call is used to create a new radio button widget.
        The name given here will be drawn to the right of the selected
        radio button graphic specified in the type parameter.

        The *select parameter is a pointer to a 32 bit variable which will
        contain the state of up to 32 radio button widgets.  The specific
        bit within that variable for this widget is specified in the bit
        parameter here.


9.8: uC_widget_textbox.c
------------------------

A textbox allows the application to accept the input of strings into
pre-allocated buffers.  The characters of these strings can be filtered on
one of the following number bases or can be alpha-numeric.

    * uC_INPUT_BINARY
    * uC_INPUT_OCTAL
    * uC_INPUT_DECIMAL
    * uC_INPUT_HEX
    * uC_INPUT_ALPHA

Alpha-numeric input allows for editing of any of the following characters
or the space

    !@#$%^&*()-=_+[]{}|\"';:`,./?<>
    0123456789
    abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
    ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

The widget editor allows for basic editing of strings including deleting
characters and moving the cursor within the edit field.

    void draw_textbox(uC_window_t *win, uC_widget_t *widget,
        uint16_t x, uint16_t y)

        This function draws a textbox widget.  It first draws the widget
        name, and then to the right of that draws the widgets edit box.
        If this widget has been or is being edited then the edit string
        will be drawn into the edit box one character at a time.

        If the next character to be drawn is at the widgets cursor
        location then the character will either be drawn with an underline
        or in reverse video depending on whether the widgets editor is in
        insert mode or overwrite mode.  The underline is used for
        overwrite mode and reverse video is used for insert mode.  Should
        those be inverted?

        Note: A string being edited into an edit box can be longer than
        the box is wide.

    static bool test_char(uC_widget_textbox_t *t, uint8_t k)

        This static function verifies that the character entered into the
        textbox is valid for that textbox's selected radix.  If the
        character is invalid then this function will return false.
        Otherwise it will return true.

    static void lt(uC_widget_textbox_t *t)

        This static function is part of the textbox editor and moves the
        cursor left one space within the edit box.

    static void rt(uC_widget_textbox_t *t)

        This static function is part of the textbox editor and moves the
        cursor right one space within the edit box.

    static void insert_char(uC_widget_textbox_t *t, uint8_t k)

        This static function is part of the textbox editor and will insert
        a single character into the edit box string at the current cursor
        location.  It will adjust the location of any other characters in
        the string if need be and will not overwrite any existing
        characters.

    static uint8_t write_char(uC_widget_textbox_t *t, uint8_t k)

        This static function is part of the textbox editor and will write
        a single character into the edit box string.  This will either
        insert that character or will overwrite the character at the
        current cursor location.

    static void del(uC_widget_textbox_t *t)

        This static function is part of the textbox editor and will delete
        the character that is at the current cursor location moving any
        other characters down as needed.

    static void bs(uC_widget_textbox_t *t)

        This static function is part of the textbox editor and will delete
        the character that is immediately to the left of the character at
        the current cursor location.  It will move any other characters
        down as needed.

    static void home(uC_widget_textbox_t *t)

        This static function is part of the textbox editor and will move
        the cursor to the start of the string within that edit box.

    static void end(uC_widget_textbox_t *t)

        This static function is part of the textbox editor and will move
        the cursor to the end of the string within that edit box.

    uint8_t handle_textbox(uint8_t k)

        This function is called by the widget keyboard handler when a
        textbox widget has focus.  It handles all key presses associated
        with the editing functions of the widget.

    API uC_widget_t *uC_widget_textbox_create(uint16_t sequence,
        char *data, char *name, uint16_t size, uC_textbox_radix_t radix,
        uint16_t width, uint8_t xco, uint8_t yco, uC_attribs_t attrs,
        uC_attribs_t focus)

        This public API function is used by application developers to
        create a new textbox widget.  It requires way too many parameters!


9.9: uC_widget_scan.c
---------------------

Every widget must have a unique tab select sequence value.  These values
must start at 1 and have no gaps.  The tab sequence is utterly independent
of which view or view group a widget is associated with.

When a widget is associated with a scrollable view then the sequence
number of the first widget within that view is controlling.  The sequence
number of all other widgets within that view are ignored.

The functions in this source file search every view in every view group
within the current active screen for the widget with a tab sequence number
equal to the current sequence plus one.  If a widget with this sequence
number is found, that widget is marked as having focus and the current
widget state is updated with a pointer to this widget, its parent view and
view group.

    static bool scan_view(uC_widget_view_t *view, uint16_t sequence)

        This static function searches through all widgets within a
        specified view for one with the specified tab sequence number.  If
        a widget with this sequence number is found, that widget is marked
        as having focus and a true result is returned.

        If no widget is found with this sequence number then a false
        result is returned.

    static bool scan_vg(uC_widget_vg_t *vg, uint16_t sequence)

        This static function searches through all views within a view
        group for a widget with the specified tab sequence number.  If a
        widget is found with this sequence number then...

            * The view group's window is marked as having focus.
            * The view is set as the current view within the widget_state
              variable.
            * The view group is set as the current view group within the
              widget_state variable.
            * A true result is returned.

        If no widget is found then a false result is returned.

    API bool uC_widget_select_widget(uint16_t sequence)

        This static function first removes focus from the currently
        selected view group's window and marks the currently focused
        widget as no longer focused.  It then searches through all view
        groups attached to the currently active screen for a widget with a
        tab sequence number equal to the specified value.

        If a widget with the specified tab sequence number is found then
        that widget, its parent view and its parent view group are all
        marked as having focus and a true result is returned.  Otherwise a
        false result is returned.

---
    char tab_next_widget(void)

        This function is part of the widget keyboard handling routines.
        It first collects the sequence number of the currently focused
        widget from the widget_state variable.  If there is no currently
        focused widget then this value will be zero.   It then adds one to
        this value and tries to find a widget with this sequence number.

        If no widget is found with this sequence number is found then the
        current sequence number is left at zero and no widgets, views or
        view groups are marked as having focus.

    char tab_next_widget(void)

        This function is part of the widget keyboard handling routines. It
        will attempt to select the widget with a sequence number equal to
        the currently focused widget sequence number plus one.  If no
        widget is found with this sequence number then all widgets, views
        and view groups lose focus and the current sequence number is set
        to zero.

    char tab_prev_widget(void)

        This function is part of the widget keyboard handling routines. It
        will attempt to select the widget with a sequence number equal to
        the currently focused widget sequence number minus one.  If no
        widget is found with this sequence number then all widgets, views
        and view groups lose focus and the current sequence number is set
        to zero.
---
+++
    uint8_t tab_next_widget(void)

        This function is part of the widget keyboard handling routines.
        It retrieves the sequence number of the currently focused widget
        from the widget_state variable and attempts to select the widget
        with the next sequence number.

        If no widget is found with that sequence number then focus wraps
        around to the widget with sequence number 1, ensuring that Tab
        always moves focus to some widget.

    uint8_t tab_prev_widget(void)

        This function is part of the widget keyboard handling routines.
        It retrieves the sequence number of the currently focused widget
        from the widget_state variable and attempts to select the widget
        with the previous sequence number.

        If the current sequence number is 1 (or no widget is found)
        focus wraps around to the widget with the highest assigned
        sequence number, ensuring that Shift-Tab always moves focus to
        some widget.
+++


9.10: uC_widget_keys.c
----------------------

This source file contains the main keyboard handler for the widget engine.
Single character key presses are passed to the individual handlers for
each widget type within their own source files.

Keys which return an escape sequence are translated into single character
values which are then manually injected into the keyboard input buffer to
be handled as though they were single character key presses.

The cursor up and cursor down keys are used to move up or down within a
scrollable widget view if it has focus and to potentially scroll that
widget it in one or other direction.

    staticbool check_scrollable(uint8_t k)

        This static function first checks if the currently focused view is
        scrollable and if so, is either the cursor up key or cursor down
        key pressed.

        If all of the above tests are true it will then call a function
        which will move the focus up or down one widget within that view
        and wil potentially scroll that view.

    static uint8_t handle_widget_key(uint8_t k)

        This static function handles a single character key press and
        passes the key to the handler for the current widget type.  If the
        current view is scrollable and the key is a cursor movement then
        the view is scrolled either up or down.

        After handling the key press it is also returned to the caller.

    static uint8_t _widget_key(void)

        This static function blocks until a key is ready to read.  key it
        is tested to see if it is the tab key or back tab key in which
        case a fucntion is called to tab to either the next or the
        previous widget in the view.

        If it neither the tab key or back tab key then which ever key was
        pressed is passed to the above handle_widget_key() function.

        If the key pressed was one that returns an escape sequence and is
        registered by the widget handler then that escape sequence will be
        translated into a single key press which will also be handled
        here.

    static uint8_t widget_key(void)

        This function is a wrapper for the above _widget_key() function.
        It repeatedly call said function until there are no more keys left
        in the input buffers to be processed.

        This allows the widget handler to inject single character key
        values into the keyboard input buffer when ever a key is pressed
        which returns an escape sequence.  The escape sequence is thereby
        translated into a single character to be processed.

        The keys which are translated in this way are detailed below.

    static void widget_key_up(void)     static void widget_key_down(void)
    static void widget_key_left(void)   static void widget_key_right(void)
    static void widget_key_insert(void) static void widget_key_home(void)
    static void widget_key_delete(void) static void widget_key_end(void)

        These static functions handle keys which return an escape sequence
        and inject a single character back into the keyboard input buffer
        in their place.  This allows these key presses to be handled by
        the functions above instead of being processed by the uCurses
        internal key handler.

    static void set_widget_key_actions(void)

        This function registers each of the above escape sequence handlers
        which translate the key presses into a single character.   It will
        also assign a do nothing handler for the F10 key so that the menus
        will not be activated when the widgets are being handled.

    API char uC_widget_main(void)

        This public API is the main keyboard handler for the widget
        engine.  It allocates a key actions array for the widget engine
        and then registers the keys needed by it.   It then calls the
        above widget_key() function to handle key presses.   When that
        function returns the key handler is released and the previous one
        is reinstated.

        Which ever key was pressed is returned to the caller.


10: Utilities
-------------

This is where I place modules or functions that are somewhat useful to the
developer or the library itself but which do not belong in any of the
above documented files.

Some of these are contained within the somewhat boringly named uC_utils.c
and others are in their own modules such as the linked list module in
uC_list.c or the memory allocation trackers in uC_alloc.c.   The purpose
of each of these is documented below.


10.1: uC_utils.c
----------------

This source file contains many tiny but useful functions which are
somewhat difficult too categorize within any of the above modules.  They
are used extensively by the library itself but are all public API entities
so are also available to the application developer.

    API void uC_noop(void) { ; }

        This public API call is the single most useful function in the
        entire library.  It performs absolutely no operation what so ever.
        It can be used to safely neuter a function pointer that is no
        longer contextually appropriate but which should not actually be
        assigned a NULL value.

    API void uC_ui_free(void *mem)

        This public API call is a wrapper function which will free any
        memory address associated within the user interface.  This happens
        enough to warrant this special wrapper function which would
        otherwise be somewhat wasteful to implement.

    API int32_t fnv_hash(uint8_t *s)

        This public API call computes a FNV hash on the string passed to
        it.
---
        It is documented as being the FNV-1a variant but this might
        actually be incorrect, it might actually be the original FNV-1.
        This is utterly inconsequential as it still performs its duties
        perfectly.
---
+++
        The algorithm used is FNV-1: the hash is first multiplied by the
        FNV prime and then XORed with the next byte.  FNV-1a reverses
        those two operations (XOR then multiply).  The constants used
        (prime 0x01000193, basis 0x811c9dc5) are correct for both
        variants so the distinction has no practical effect on the
        library.
+++

        It is used as a means of negating the need to do string compares
        within the library which are widely accepted as being unsafe.  I
        am somewhat worried that this might prove to be equally unsafe but
        it also has certain utility value that still makes it preferable.

        For example, it allows the JSON parser to switch on strings which
        is not built into the C language.

    API void uC_clock_sleep(int32_t whence)

        This public API call is used to pause for a specified length of
        time in nano seconds.

    API void uC_init_terminal(void)

        This public API function is used as part of the uCurses
        initialization procedure.   It configures the terminal to use a
        raw mode with no echo on user input.   The current state of the
        terminal configuration is saved so that it can be restored on
        exit.

    API void uC_restore_terminal(void)

        This public API call restores the terminal configurations back to
        their saved state.  It is used as part of the libraries exit
        procedure so the terminal is not left in a squirly state.

---
    API __attribute__((noreturn)) void uC_abort(char *msg)

        This public API call is used as a somewhat graceful abort.  It
        restores the terminal to its original state and emits an error
        string to stderr.  It then exits the application and returns
        back to the console.
---
+++
    API __attribute__((noreturn)) void uC_abort(const char *msg)

        This public API call is used as a somewhat graceful abort.  If a
        fatal handler has been registered via uC_set_fatal_handler() then
        that handler is called first with the error message, giving the
        application one last chance to log the error or longjmp() to a
        recovery point.  If the handler returns normally the terminal is
        restored to its original state and the application exits.

    API void uC_set_fatal_handler(void (*fp)(const char *msg))

        This public API call registers a user-supplied callback that will
        be invoked by uC_abort() before the application exits.  The
        callback receives the same error message string that uC_abort()
        was called with.

        The handler may call longjmp() to bypass the exit entirely,
        allowing the application to attempt recovery.  If the handler
        returns normally then uC_abort() will proceed with terminal
        restoration and exit(1).

        Pass NULL to deregister a previously registered handler.
+++

    API void uC_get_console_size(uint16_t *width, uint16_t *height)

        This public API call is used to query the current size of the
        virtual terminal.   I have come to learn that this method is not
        very reliable in all cases and that there are other methods that
        I should also be using.  This is on the "some day" todo list to
        fix maybe?

---
    API void uC_assert(bool f, char *file, int line, char *msg)
---
+++
    API void uC_assert(bool f, const char *file, int line, const char *msg)
+++

        This public API call asserts that a passed in condition is true.
        If the condition is true this function simply returns to the
        caller.  If the condition is false the library is de-initialized
        and a specified error message is written out to stderr and the
        application is aborted.


10.2: uC_alloc.c
----------------

This module is not a memory allocator, it is simply an associative memory
allocation tracker.   This enables the library and user applications to
compartmentalize memory allocations so that all allocations associated
with a given purpose can be de-allocated on demand without ripping the rug
out from under any other allocation type.

Associations are based on memory zones.  At the time of writing there are
currently only eight zones defined.   This is probably overkill but if you
require more you can always rebuild the library (tm).

    * uC_MEM_ZONE_DEFAULT
    * uC_MEM_ZONE_UI
    * uC_MEM_ZONE_JSON
    * uC_MEM_ZONE_USER1
    * uC_MEM_ZONE_USER2
    * uC_MEM_ZONE_USER3
    * uC_MEM_ZONE_USER4
    * uC_MEM_ZONE_USER5

The JSON memory zone is only actively being used when the JSON parser is
initializing the user interface.   At all other times this memory zone is
not utilized.

This means that this zone can be repurposed in certain cases.  If your
application is running on a system that could support the sigwinch signal
and I ever get the handling of this signal working then you would not be
able to use this zone.  Otherwise knock yourself out!

Each memory zone may have a certain number of allocations made against it.
Each allocation is tracked within an array within the zone structures.  If
an attempt is made to make an allocation against any zone which is 'full'
then the allocation array will be expanded to allow this.  There is no
mechanism to shrink expanded zones.

    static void mem_abort(void)

        This static function is a graceful exit from the application which
        is attempting to allocate memory on the condition where the system
        is out of memory.

    API void uC_mem_purge(uC_mem_zone_t zone)

        This public API call is used to de-allocate all allocations which
        are associated with a specified memory zone.  Only allocations
        which are associated with that zone are freed.  Once all
        allocations have been freed then zone structure including the
        array tracking those allocations is freed.

        Any attempt to make allocations against this zone after calling
        this function will require the module to re-initialize the zone
        with its smallest tracking array.

    API size_t uC_zone_query(uC_mem_zone_t zone)

        This public API will return the total amount of memory which is
        allocated within the specified memory zone.  This can be used to
        track which parts of your application are using the most memory or
        to verify that a memory purge of a specific zone has been
        successful.

    static void alloc_init(uC_mem_zone_t zone)

        This static function is used to initialize a memory zone when the
        first allocation within it is requested.  It will initialize the
        structures for this zone including allocating an array of
        allocations made against this zone.

    static bool check_zone_full(uC_mem_zone_t zone)

        This static function is called when an attempt to allocate memory
        against a specified zone is made.  It ensures that the maximum
        number of allocations have not already been made against that zone
        and will, if need be, increase the maximum to accommodate the
        requested allocation.

    API void *uC_alloc(uC_mem_zone_t zone, size_t size)

        This public API call is used by applications to allocate memory
        against a specified zone.   All allocations are made using the
        standard C calloc() function.

        Note: On a highly resource constrained embedded system calloc()
        and related function calls are somewhat problematical.  In the
        future I might modify this by adding a more resource friendly
        allocator to the library but this is not something I would look
        forward to and would also increase the size of the library.

    API void uC_free(uC_mem_zone_t zone, void *addr)

        This public API call is used to de-allocate a buffer previously
        allocated against the specified memory zone.  If no allocation
        at the specified address is associated with the specified zone
        then this function will silently ignore the error.

        Otherwise the memory is freed and the specified address is removed
        from the array of tracked allocations.


10.3: uC_braille.c
------------------

This module contains function to allow displaying of graphical entities
using the UTF-8 Braille character set with UTF-8 Code points from 0x2800
to 0x28ff as follows.

    00  ⠁⠂⠃⠄⠅⠆⠇    40 ⡀⡁⡂⡃⡄⡅⡆⡇    08 ⠈⠉⠊⠋⠌⠍⠎⠏    48 ⡈⡉⡊⡋⡌⡍⡎⡏
    10 ⠐⠑⠒⠓⠔⠕⠖⠗    50 ⡐⡑⡒⡓⡔⡕⡖⡗    18 ⠘⠙⠚⠛⠜⠝⠞⠟    58 ⡘⡙⡚⡛⡜⡝⡞⡟
    20 ⠠⠡⠢⠣⠤⠥⠦⠧    60 ⡠⡡⡢⡣⡤⡥⡦⡧    28 ⠨⠩⠪⠫⠬⠭⠮⠯    68 ⡨⡩⡪⡫⡬⡭⡮⡯
    30 ⠰⠱⠲⠳⠴⠵⠶⠷    70 ⡰⡱⡲⡳⡴⡵⡶⡷    38 ⠸⠹⠺⠻⠼⠽⠾⠿    78 ⡸⡹⡺⡻⡼⡽⡾⡿
    80 ⢀⢁⢂⢃⢄⢅⢆⢇    C0 ⣀⣁⣂⣃⣄⣅⣆⣇    88 ⢈⢉⢊⢋⢌⢍⢎⢏    C8 ⣈⣉⣊⣋⣌⣍⣎⣏
    90 ⢐⢑⢒⢓⢔⢕⢖⢗    D0 ⣐⣑⣒⣓⣔⣕⣖⣗    98 ⢘⢙⢚⢛⢜⢝⢞⢟    D8 ⣘⣙⣚⣛⣜⣝⣞⣟
    A0 ⢠⢡⢢⢣⢤⢥⢦⢧    E0 ⣠⣡⣢⣣⣤⣥⣦⣧    A8 ⢨⢩⢪⢫⢬⢭⢮⢯    E8 ⣨⣩⣪⣫⣬⣭⣮⣯
    B0 ⢰⢱⢲⢳⢴⢵⢶⢷    F0 ⣰⣱⣲⣳⣴⣵⣶⣷    B8 ⢸⢹⢺⢻⢼⢽⢾⢿    F8 ⣸⣹⣺⣻⣼⣽⣾⣿

This character set comprises of 256 characters which contain a pattern of
two wide, four high dots ranging from 0 dots to 8 dots total.  They can be
used to draw almost any graphical image such as bar graphs and the like.

The uC_curses example code shows them being used to draw a texture mapped
3d maze using a ray casting engine which I found on the net (attributed).

They also demonstrate a very cheezy super-sampled Mandelbrot viewer.

    API int16_t uC_braille_xlat(uint8_t chr)

        This public API call will translate an 8 bit vale from 0x00 to
        0xff into the UTF-8 code point for one of the above braille
        characters with the same bit pattern.

    API void uC_braille_8(uC_window_t *win, uint16_t *braille_data,
        uint8_t *map, uint16_t width)

        This public API call will translate a bitmap of a specified size,
        containing 8 bits per pixel into a UTF8 braille character
        representation of that image.

    API void uC_braille_1(uC_window_t *win, uint16_t *braille_data,
        uint8_t *map, uint16_t width, uint16_t height)

        This public API call will translate a bitmap of a specified size,
        containing 1 bit per pixel into a UTF8 braille character
        representation of that image.

    API void uC_draw_braille(uC_window_t *win, uint16_t *braille_data)

        This public API call will draw a UTF-8 braille character image
        which is equal in size to the specified window into that window.


10.4: uC_entry.c
----------------

This module contains the entry point code for the library.  This includes
code to be run if the .so file is ever executed directly.  In this case
the code here will parse and interpret the command line arguments passed
to the it.

    static uint8_t *next_arg(void)

        This static function parses the next command line argument out of
        the /proc/self/cmdline file which has been previously opened. A
        pointer to the parsed argument is returned to the caller.

    static void separator(void)

        This static function draws a simple separator line out to stdout
        when the library prints some simple source code to be included
        within the target application.

    static void print_cb(uint8_t *path)

        This function writes a small amount of source code out to sdtout.
        This code is to be included in an applications sources and will be
        used to associate a function vector with a strings hash value.

        This is used by the pull-down menu initialization code used within
        the JSON parser.  See Below.

    static void print_switch(uint8_t *path)

        This function writes a small amount of source code out to sdtout.
        This code is to be included in an applications sources and will be
        used to associate a function vector with a strings hash value.

        This is used by the pull-down menu initialization code used within
        the JSON parser.  See Below.

    static void hash_file(const uint8_t *p)

        This function is used to compute a number of hash values for the
        strings contained within the specified file.  These are names of
        functions to be used with the applications pull-down menu system
        which will be built by the JSON parser.

        It is not possible in C to specify a string at run time which is
        to be associated with a given function.  A pointer to the function
        must be associated with the string at compile time which makes it
        somewhat difficult to construct the dynamic pull-down menus
        at run time using the JSON parser.

        These functions will, given a list of strings, compute a hash
        value for each string and will write out code which user
        applications can then include in their build.  When their
        application is launched the values calculated here can be
        associated with functions of the same name by the JSON parser.

        This allows applications to describe their entire menu system
        within their JSON UI description allowing the JSON parser to
        connect a function name string to said functions address.

    static const uint16_t smushed[]

        This static array is a 'compressed' instance of the usage help
        info.  This compression method is ULTRA cheezy and wont be
        described here but it actually works quite well.

        Patent not pending!

    static int8_t read_c1(void)

        This function is part of the 'smushed' decompression routines.  It
        reads compressed data and returns one decompressed character to be
        displayed on stdout when the user passes a --help command line
        argument.

    static void help(void)

        This static function is called when the user passes a --help
        command line argument.  It will decompress and display the entire
        help string contained within the smushed data array.

    static const char message[]

        This array contains the same data as contained within the smushed
        compressed data array but is not compressed.  Which help data is
        included is based on a conditional compilation selection.

    static void help(void)

        This version of the help function is used when the help data is
        compiled in an uncompressed format.

    static void process_args(void)

        This static function parses one item out of the command line and
        selects one of two different operations based on that string.  If
        the string is "--help" the smushed or non smushed help message is
        written out to the console.

        If the string is not "--help" then it is assumed to be a file
        which contains a list of strings, one string per line which are
        the names of functions to be called by the pulldown menu system.

        A FNV hash is computed for each string and code is written out to
        the console which can be included in the application developers
        sources to allow the JSON parser to associate code function
        addresses with the hash values of each string passed in here.

    API void entry(void)

        This function is analogous to main() in a non .so file build.  It
        allows for the libuCurses.so file to be executed directly from the
        command line.   It first displays a version string for the library
        and then processes and handles any command line arguments if any
        passed to the library.


10.5: uC_eval.c
---------------

The functions within this file will evaluate a string, interpreting said
string as a numerical value in some specified radix.  ANY radix can be
specified and this code will reliably interpret the string and return a
correct value to the caller.

This code is a port of the code I implemented in my X86 forth compiler X4
which was there written in pure x86_32 assembler and which was also later
ported to x86_64 assembler (ftw!).

    static uint8_t digit(uint8_t c, uint8_t radix, uint8_t *result)

        This static function will parse a single character out of a string
        and will convert it to some numerical value based on the current
        radix.

        If the character is valid in the currently selected radix then the
        numerical value of that character is returned to the caller.  If
        the character is not valid in the current radix then a result of
        zero is returned.

        This results in an incorrect end result and no error handling is
        performed.  The library will not play mommy here or hold your hand
        protecting you from you as adding such error handling would add
        some code size to the library and I elected to let you suffer }:)

    API uint8_t eval(uint8_t *s, uint32_t *result, uint8_t radix)

        This public API call, when passed a string, an address for a
        result to be stored and a radix to be used will convert the string
        into a numerical value based on the specified radix (anything from
        2 to 36 are valid I believe) and will store the computed numerical
        value of that string in the specified address.


10.6: uC_list.c
---------------

These sources provide a very simple but fast linked list engine.  These
functions have been in almost constant use for at least 20 years and I am
absolutely 100% positive that they are now absolutely 100% bug free! (tm)!

    API uC_list_node_t *uC_list_scan(uC_list_t *list, uC_list_node_t *n1)

         This public API function allows application code (and the library
         itself) to iterate through a list one node at a time.   On each
         call it will return the address of the next node in the list or
         a NULL if there are no further items in the list.

         The application must pass in one if two parameters.  On the first
         call it should pass in the address of the list to be scanned and
         a NULL.   It will then return the address of the first node in
         the list if one is present.

         On subsequent calls the application should pass in a NULL list
         address and the address of the node which was returned to it in
         the previous call.

         The application code will need to extract the (void *) payload
         from each node and cast it to the appropriate data type to be
         handled as needed.

    API bool uC_list_insert_node(uC_list_node_t *node1, void *payload)

        This public API call will insert a new node which is to contain
        the specified payload into the middle of an existing list
        immediately following some other node which is already in the
        list.

    static void node_remove(uC_list_node_t *node1)

        This static function will remove a specified node from the list
        and de-allocate the node structure.  If this node is between two
        other nodes or is either at the head or tail of the list then all
        links will be adjusted to accommodate the removal of the node.

    API void uC_list_remove_node(uC_list_t *list, void *payload)

        This public API call will remove which ever node, contained within
        the specified list carries a payload at the specified address.

        If more than one node carries a payload with this address then
        only the first one found will be removed.

    API bool uC_list_push_head(uC_list_t *list, void *payload)

        This public API call will push a new node containing the specified
        payload onto the head of the specified list.

    API bool uC_list_push_tail(uC_list_t *list, void* payload)

        This public API call will push a new node containing the specified
        payload onto the tail of the specified list.

    static void *list_pop(uC_list_t *list, bool whence)

        This static function will pop (remove) one node from either the
        head or tail of the specified list.   The payload of this node is
        returned to the caller and the node structure itself is freed.

    API void *uC_list_pop_head(uC_list_t *list)
    API void *uC_list_pop_tail(uC_list_t *list)

        These public API functions remove one item from either the head or
        tail of the specified list, returning the payload of the removed
        node.   The node structure which is removed from the list is also
        freed.

    API bool uC_list_insert_before(uC_list_node_t *n1, void *payload)

        This public API function will insert a new node in front of the
        specified node within the specified list.  The new node will have
        the specified payload associated with it.

        There is currently no associated "insert after" function.


10.7: uC_rgb_hsl.c
------------------

The functions in this file are used to compute contrasting foreground and
background colors.   This code here was snagged somewhere and I forget
where I found it and utterly neglected to save any attribution.  If this
is your code let me know and I will gladly give that attribution.

However, I am not entirely happy with the contrasting colors produced by
these algorithms and I really need a better replacement for them.  As
noted in the comments at the top of this file I have previously found a
much better algorithm but even that was not very good and I have no idea
wtf I did with that code after I found it.  I obviously did not put that
code in here in place of what is here now (ID10T)

For this reason, this text here is the only documentation I am prepared
to write at this time. (junk code should be discarded not documented!)


10.8: uC_swtitch.c
------------------

If I documented my reasoning for creating this module it would come over
as a highly toxic rant.  This is because there are certain aspects of the
C programming language that I have absolutely nothing good to say about
and C's implementation of the switch statement is one of those.

I do still use C's switch mechanisms but I will avoid them where I can.

    API int uC_switch(const uC_switch_t *s, int size, int32_t option)

        THe uC_switch_t *s here is an array of uC_switch_t elements with
        size elements.  Each uC_switch_t contains a 32 bit option value
        and a pointer to a function.

        This call will scan the specified array of uC_switch_t items for
        one with an option equal to the one passed in here.  If found then
        that options vector is called.

        Clean, tidy and fast and enforces good factoring of code.   The
        only disadvantages here are that you would need to re-implement
        this call for every variant that expects different parameter types
        or returns different value types and that the C compiler will not
        warn you about cases not accounted for.

        Use of this function is not mandated, you can ignore it with
        impunity at your pleasure.


10.9: uC_utf8.c
---------------

The unicode standard was implemented to address the problem of
representing multi national texts on multiple systems, allowing the same
numerical values to represent the same text characters acrorss all
systems.

Each numerical value in the unicode standard is referred to as a code
point and these values can be represented using one to four bytes of
memory in your computer.

When writing these code points out to a display or when transmitting them
across a network they need to be encoded into UTF-8 characters which are
also represented using one to four bytes.

The UTF-8 standard was devised as a way of solving numerous problems such
as when transmitting unicode across a network.  This is a huge subject and
way beyond the scope of this document.  For a greater understanding of the
problems UTF-8 solves the following link is the best I have seen to date.

    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vpSkBV5vydg

This text does not document either unicode or UTF-8 but explains how this
library handles UTF-8 encoded text.  It will cover how UTF-8 characters
are decode into UTF code points and how UTF code points are encoded into
UTF-8 characters.

Your terminal does not print unicode code points.  These are simply a
convenent means of storing multi national characters in your computer. To
display these code ponts they must be translated into UTF-8 characters









utf8 encoding takes code points and converts them to characters
utf8 decoding takes characters and converts them to code points


10.10: uC_win_printf.c
----------------------

This module will probably make purists cringe but it has proved to be one
of the most useful extensions added to this library.  It greatly
simplifies the use of a significant part of the uCurses API.

While these functions associates themselves with C's printf they do not
support the standard printf format specifiers but implement a custom set
thereof.  Some of these use more than one character (after the %) or may
expect more than one parameter.  Not something that is commonly seen.

Each of these operate on a window passed in to uC_win_printf() itself and
this window is saved to a static global variable (for the win!).

Where appropriate, for each of the following functions which is associated
with a format specifier I document both the specifier and the function
which handles it.

---
    API void uC_win_puts(uC_window_t *win, uint8_t *p)
---
+++
    API void uC_win_puts(uC_window_t *win, const char *p)
+++

        This public API call writes the specified UTF-8 string into a
        window at that windows current cursor location.  It will advance
        that windows cursor by the cell width of each character in the
        string.

    static void up(void)               %up

        This static function handles the %up format specifier which will
        scroll a window up one line, erasing the bottom line.

        The reason for the two characters here is it makes the interface
        consistent across the %up %dn %lt and %rt specifiers.  The %r
        specifier has multiple uses which is documented below and this
        fact demands the second character to disambiguate.

    static void dn(void)               %dn

        This static function handles the %dn format specifier which will
        scroll a window down one line, erasing the top line.

        The reason for the two characters here is it makes the interface
        consistent across the %up %dn %lt and %rt specifiers.  The %r
        specifier has multiple uses which is documented below and this
        fact demands the second character to disambiguate.

    static void lt(void)               %lt

        This static function handles the %lt format specifier which will
        pan a window left one column, erasing the column to the far right.

        The reason for the two characters here is it makes the interface
        consistent across the %up %dn %lt and %rt specifiers.  The %r
        specifier has multiple uses which is documented below and this
        fact demands the second character to disambiguate.

    static void rt(void)               %rt

        This static function handles the %rt format specifier which will
        pan a window right one column, erasing the column on the far left.

        The reason for the two characters here is it makes the interface
        consistent across the %up %dn %lt and %rt specifiers.  The %r
        specifier has multiple uses which is documented below and this
        fact demands the second character to disambiguate.

    static void r(void)                %rf or %rb

        This static function handles both the %rf and %rb specifiers and
        will modify either the windows foreground color or background
        color, setting them to a 24 bit RGB color.  This format specifier
        therefore expects three parameters, the red, the green and the
        blue values to be set.

    static void f(void)                %fc or %fs

        This static function handles both the %fc and %fs specifiers and
        will modify a windows foreground color setting it to either a
        specific 8 bit (palatalized) color or to a gray scale value.

    static void b(void)                %bc or %bs

        This static function handles both the %bc and %bs specifiers and
        will modify a windows background color setting it to either a
        specific 8 bit (palatalized) color or to a gray scale value.

    static void xy(void)               %@

        This static function handles the %@ specifier and will move the
        windows cursor to the specified X, Y coordinates within that
        window.  This specifier therefore expects two parameters being
        both the X and the Y coordinates.

        This call will not move the cursor outside the bounds of the
        window.

    static void P(void)                %P

        This static function handles the %P specifier and will move a
        windows location within its parent screen to the specified X / Y
        coordinates.   This specifier therefore expects two parameters
        being both the X and Y coordinates.

        This call will not move any part of the window outside the bounds
        of its parent screen.

    static void x(void)                %x

        This static function handles the %x specifier which will move a
        windows cursor to the specified X coordinate within its current
        line.

        This call will not move the cursor outside the bounds of the
        window.

    static void y(void)                %y

        This static function handles the %y specifier which will move a
        windows cursor to the specified Y coordinate within its current
        column.

        This call will not move the cursor outside the bounds of the
        window.

    static void utf8(void)             %8

        This static function handles the %8 specifier which will write a
        single UTF-8 character into a window.

    static void c(void)                %cu or %cd or %cl or %cr

        This static function handles the %cu, %cd, %cl and %cr specifiers
        and will move a windows cursor either up, down, left or right.

        Moving the cursor up or down will not move it outside the bounds
        of the window but will scroll that window up one line if the
        cursor was on the bottom line *unless* that window is scroll
        locked in which case it will not move the cursor at all.

        Moving the cursor left when it is already at the left edge of the
        window will move the cursor to the far right column of the window
        line above its current line unless it is on the top line already.

        Moving the cursor right when it is already at the far right edge
        of the window will move the cursor to the far left column of the
        line below its current position unless it is already on the
        bottom line in which case it will not move the cursor but can
        scroll the window up one line if it is not scroll locked.

    static void wclear(void)           %0

        This static function handles the %0 specifier which will clear a
        window and position its cursor to the top left thereof.

    static void u_puts(void)           %s

        This static function handles the %s specifier which will write
        a string out to the window at its current cursor location.  It is
        simply a wrapper for the above documented uC_win_puts() function.

    static void bold(void)             %B+ or %B-

        This static function which handles both the %B+ and %B- specifiers
        will either enable or disable the bold attribute for a window.

    static void uline(void)            %U+ or %U-

        This static function which handles both the %U+ and %U- specifiers
        will either enable or disable the underline attribute for a
        window.

    static void rev(void)             %R+ or %R-

        This static function which handles both the %R+ and %R- specifiers
        will either enable or disable the reverse video attribute for a
        window.

    static void e(void)                %e

        This static function which handles the %e specifier will write an
        EOL character to a window (a cr/lf).  If the windows cursor is on
        the bottom line of the window then this call will place the cursor
        on the left edge of the window and will scroll the window unless
        it is scroll locked.

    static void star(void)             %*

        This static function which handles the %* specifier will write a
        specified character a specified number of times to the window at
        its current cursor location.

        Each character written will move the windows cursor to the right
        which will potentially wrap round to the start of the next line
        which could potentially scroll the window unless it is scroll
        locked.

    static void specifier(void)

        This static function executes one of the above handlers based on
        a selection made from a uC_switch_t structure.

---
    API void uC_win_printf(uC_window_t *win, uint8_t *format, ...)
---
+++
    API void uC_win_printf(uC_window_t *win, const char *format, ...)
+++

        This public API call works in a way that is similar to C's printf
        function but none of C's printf specifiers are valid here.  The
        format string can contain any number of specifiers as documented
        above or can contain characters to be written directly to the
        specified window.


10.11: uC_winch.c
-----------------

This module is a horrendously non functional attempt at handling the
sigwinch signal within uCurses.  This signal is sent to a process when the
window it is running within is resized.   In uCurses such a change would
require a complete tare down of the entire user interface followed by a
re-initialization thereof.

Thus far I have not been able to get this to work reliably at all and have
shelved implementing this functionality for now.


11: JSON
--------

This extension adds a JSON parser allowing application developers to write
an almost complete description of their user interface in JSON.  These
sources will parse that description and construct the interface based on
elements found therein.   This is not exactly a conformant implementation
of the JSON specification but it works well for its intended purpose.

It is probably only second to the widgets sources in complexity and it
significantly increases the size of the library when it is included in the
build.  Everything handled herein can be performed programmatically,
independently of the JSON parser.


11.1: json.c
------------

This source file implements the JSON parsers state machine which uses five
active states to parse the JSON source file.   There is also one inactive
state which indicates that the JSON state machine has not yet started
parsing anything.  These states are as follows...

     * JSON_STATE_NONE
     * JSON_STATE_L_BRACE
     * JSON_STATE_KEY
     * JSON_STATE_VALUE
     * JSON_STATE_R_BRACE
     * JSON_STATE_DONE

As the JSON text is parsed the text does not define the state.  Rather,
the state defines what the next character must be.  All parsing is done on
a space delimited token by token basis.

The initial active state is JSON_STATE_L_BRACE which expects the next
token parsed to be the left brace '{' char.  If it is then the state is
set to JSON_STATE_KEY.   If not... oopts!

The handler for JSON_STATE_KEY expect to see one of several known tokens
which will either be a 'key' token or an 'object' token.  Only recognized
tokens are valid, unrecognized tokens will cause the state machine to
puke.

The following object tokens are valid

    * STRUCT_SCREEN       * STRUCT_WINDOW      * STRUCT_BACKDROP
    * STRUCT_MENU_BAR     * STRUCT_PULLDOWN    * STRUCT_MENU_ITEM
    * STRUCT_ATTRIBS      * STRUCT_B_ATTRIBS   * STRUCT_S_ATTRIBS
    * STRUCT_D_ATTRIBS    * STRUCT_F_ATTRIBS   * STRUCT_FLAGS
    * STRUCT_RGB_FG       * STRUCT_RGB_BG      * STRUCT_WINDOWS
    * STRUCT_PULLDOWNS    * STRUCT_MENU_ITEMS

And the following key tokens are valid...

    * KEY_FG              * KEY_BG             * KEY_GRAY_BG
    * KEY_GRAY_FG         * KEY_RED            * KEY_GREEN
    * KEY_BLUE            * KEY_XCO            * KEY_YCO
    * KEY_WIDTH           * KEY_HEIGHT         * KEY_NAME
    * KEY_FLAGS           * KEY_BORDER_TYPE    * KEY_VECTOR
    * KEY_SHORTCUT        * KEY_FLAG           * KEY_BLANK
    * KEY_ORDER

---
All tokens are recognized by their 32 bit FNV-1a hash value (which, as
stated elsewhere in these texts may very well actually be the FNV-1
algorithm, not 1a).  No string compare functions are called.
---
+++
All tokens are recognized by their 32 bit FNV-1 hash value.  No string
compare functions are called.
+++

If the parsed token is recognized as a key then that specific key is
handled (see below) and the next state is set to JSON_STATE_VALUE where we
extract the value to be stored in the specified key.

    Note: while the ':' character between a key and its associated value
    is required there is no state ':'

If the parsed token is one of the recognized objects the state is reset
back to JSON_STATE_L_BRACE.

Almost every JSON_STATE_L_BRACE indicates that a new object and thereby
an associated C structure is being created.

For every object state a new object is allocated for its associated C
structure but key states do not create any new objects because they are
used to assign values to the current object.  A new JSON state is however
always created and object state structure for the previous state is pushed
onto a state stack.

Any time a new object or key token is parsed we check to see if there is a
comma on it.  If there is no comma the next state will instead be
JSON_STATE_R_BRACE which pops the previous state off the stack.

As key values are parsed we immediately set the specified item in their
parents C structure.  When an object is completed we store the associated
C structure within its parents C structure.  The structure types of both
specify how and where.

When all states have been popped off the stack we transition into
JSON_STATE_DONE and the state machine terminates.

This custom JSON parser was implemented rather than using an off the shelf
parser because it not only builds the user interface but also verifies its
validity.   It will not for example, allow you to define a screen
structure within a color attributes structure.

As stated above, some object states do not have an associated C structure
so parsing them creates a pseudo object.  Any keys specified within
these pseudo object will be assigned to this pseudo objects parent C
structure. I.E. The keys grandparent.

I did not implement a way to define arrays in this parser and I have also
allowed for values to be expressed as a percentage.  For example you can
set a window width equal to a percentage of its parent screens width.

    static void json_push(json_state_t *j)

        This static function pushes the current state variables address
        onto a stack so we can initiate a new state which has been passed
        in as a pointer to a new state structure.

    void json_pop(void)

        This function pops the previous state back off the state stack and
        makes it once again the current state.

    __attribute__((noreturn)) void json_error(const char *s)

        This function is the JSON state machines abort method.  Any errors
        in the JSON source file is considered a fatal error here and the
        application will be aborted with an error message which has been
        passed in.

    void *json_alloc(uC_mem_zone_t zone, uint32_t size)

        This function is used to allocate a user interface structure such
        as a screen or a window etc which is to be populated with key
        values and other sub structures defined in the JSON sources.

        It is also used to allocate the JSON parsers state structures when
        the state machine is transitioned to a new state.

    static void json_state_l_brace(void)

        This static function handles the initial state of the JSON parser
        and verifies that the next character parsed out of the sources is
        the left brace '{' character.   If it is the expected character
        then the state is set to JSON_STATE_KEY.  Otherwise it is an error
        which is always fatal.

    void json_new_state_struct(int struct_size, int32_t struct_type)

        This function is used to transition the JSON parsers state machine
        to a new state.  It allocates and initializes a new state
        structure and then calls a function which pushes the old state
        structure onto a stack.  Finally it sets the current state equal
        to the new state.

    static bool check_comma(void)

        This static function verifies that the most recently parsed space
        delimited token has a comma ',' as its last character.  As parsed
        tokens are never compared directly but are hashed, the has value
        calculated for this token will be incorrect (because of the
        comma).

        If the token does have a comma then that comma is stripped off and
        the tokens FNV hash value is recalculated.

        This function then returns either true (there was a comma) or
        false (there was no comma).   There being no comma is not always
        an error.

   void json_state_r_brace(void)

        This function verifies that the most recently parsed space
        delimited token was the right brace '}' character.  Prior to this
        test it must first strip any comma from the token if there was one
        and must recalculate the tokens hash value with the comma removed.

        It is assumed that the next state will be JSON_STATE_DONE but if
        the current structure being populated is not the "one and only"
        screen structure we populate that structures parent (the screen
        has no parent as it is the root structure of the UI).

        In this case we must then pop the previous state off the state
        machines stack and if that state is not NULL then we set the new
        state to either JSON_STATE_KEY or to JSON_STATE_R_BRACE depending
        on whether original '}' token had a comma on it or not.

        If, after popping the previous state off the stack results in a
        NULL json_state variable then the above assumption is correct and
        we have successfully parsed the entire JSON source file.

    static void run_state_machine(void)

        This static function contains the main loop of the JSON parsers
        state machine.  It parses the next space delimited token out of
        the source JSON file, computes its hash and executes the function
        associated with the current state which will verify that the token
        which was parsed was the correct one and will advance the state
        machine to the next appropriate state if it was.

        If the token was incorrect for the current state then that is
        always treated as a fatal error.

        This function will repeat in a loop until the state handler which
        was executed in the most recent iteration sets the state to
        JSON_STATE_DONE.

    static void open_json_file(char *path)

        This function will attempt to open and memory map a JSON source
        file whose path name has been passed in.  Being unable to open
        said file is a fatal error.

    static void parse_json_data(void)

        This function simply runs the JSON parsers state machine on a
        memory mapped instance of a JSON file.   If this file was valid
        then *somewhere* within that parsing the active_screen global UI
        variable will have been set.

        If this variable has been initialized then we will need to run
        some fixup code on the structures built during the JSON parsing
        so that the interface is complete.

    void json_file_create_ui(char *path, fp_finder_t fp)

        This function will run the state machine parser on a file which is
        in the applications current directory.

        The fp_finder_t function pointer passed in here is used by the
        user interface builder functions to assign function address to
        every pull-down menu item parsed by the state machine.

        This function is generated by executing the libraries .so file
        directly while specifying a file containing a list of function
        names to be associated with menu items.   The library will at
        this time generate sources which, when included in the
        applications build will allow the JSON parser to create the
        desired associations.

        It is not possible for the JSON parser to know the address of a
        function whose name has been parsed but by computing a hash value
        of that name string and assigning that association at build time
        it enables the JSON parser to make that association as it builds
        the menu user interface.

    void json_mem_create_ui(char *json_data, int len, fp_finder_t fp)

        This function will run the state machine parser on a file which
        has been built into the applications executable.

        The fp_finder_t function pointer passed in here is used by the
        user interface builder functions to assign function address to
        every pull-down menu item parsed by the state machine.

        This function is generated by executing the libraries .so file
        directly while specifying a fine containing a list of function
        names to be associated with menu items.   The library will at
        this time generate sources which, when included in the
        applications build will allow the JSON parser to define the
        desired associations.

        It is not possible for the JSON parser to know the address of a
        function whose name has been parsed but by computing a hash value
        of that name string and assigning that association at build time
        it enables the JSON parser to make that association as it builds
        the menu user interface.


11.2: json_token.c
------------------

The functions in this file are where this parser does its actual parsing.
Tokens are parsed out of the source JSON file based on white space.  All
tokens must therefore be space delimited.  This greatly simplified the
complexity of the parser!

The following functions are contained within this file...

    void strip_quotes(int16_t len)

       All key values must be wrapped within double quotation marks.
       These must be removed from the space delimited token so prior to
       computing that tokens FNV hash value.

    static void refill(void)

        This parser parses tokens out of the source JSON file one line at
        a time.  When the current line of the source file has been parsed
        this function will 'refill' which copies the next line of the
        JSON file into a separate line buffer.

        Blank lines are skipped here and overly long lines will cause this
        function to puke.

    static void skip_white(void)

        When parsing the next token out of the line buffer this function is
        called to skip any leading white space prior to parsing that token.
        If there is no more data within the line buffer to be parsed then
        the refill function is called here.

        This is also where comments are skipped.  JSON does not have a
        line comment mechanism defined as part of its specification but
        most custom parsers add extensions to allow them.  I will not
        comment on how not being able to comment in JSON is DUMB!

    void json_de_tab(char *s, int len)

        This function overwrites every tab character in the JSON source
        file with a space.  Tabs are evil kthxbai!

    void token(void)

        This function is where each space delimited token is parsed out of
        the source JSON file.  These tokens are copied into a json_token[]
        array within the json_vars structure.  There is therefore a max
        length of any token.


11.3: json_key.c
----------------

This source file contains the functions related to the handling of both
key and object tokens.  Objects are usually associated with C structures
which define the user interface elements.

Keys assign values to the various items within those structures.

As new object / key tokens are parsed a new state structure is created.
If the token was an object then a (void *) structure equal in size to the
user interface item being created is also allocated as part of the new
state structure.

There are a few object tokens which define pseudo structures and these do
not define any actual C structures but they still transition the JSON
state machine to a new objects state.  Any key values defined within these
pseudo objects are assigned to the pseudo objects parent structure.


11.3.1: Object Structures
-------------------------

    static void struct_screen(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_SCREEN object and transitions
        the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        There can at present be only one screen object defined for the
        user interface and it must be the first object specified within
        the JSON data.

        When this object structures is allocated the associated
        STRUCT_SCREEN structure is assigned to the global active_screen
        variable.

    static void struct_windows(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_WINDOWS pseudo object and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        Widow objects are attached to their parent screen in a linked
        list.  This pseudo object allows for a collection of windows to be
        defined within a screen.

        A STRUCT_WINDOWS pseudo object must be defined within a
        STRUCT_SCREEN object.

    static void struct_window(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_WINDOW object and transitions
        the JSON state machine to a new object state.

        A STRUCT_WINDOW object must be defined within a STRUCT_WINDOWS
        pseudo object.

    static void struct_backdrop(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_WINDOW object and transitions
        the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A backdrop window is a special window which will be attached to
        its parent screen.

        A STRUCT_WINDOW object must be defined within a STRUCT_SCREEN
        object.

    static void struct_m_bar(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_MENU_BAR object and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_MENU_BAR object must be defined within a STRUCT_SCREEN
        object.

    static void struct_pulldowns(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_PULLDOWNS pseudo object and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_PULLDOWNS object must be defined within a STRUCT_MENU_BAR
        object.

    static void struct_pulldown(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_PULLDOWN object and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_PULLDOWN object must be defined within a STRUCT_PULLDOWNS
        object.

    static void struct_m_items(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_MENU_ITEMS pseudo object and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_MENU_ITEMS object must be defined within a
        STRUCT_PULLDOWN object.

    static void struct_m_item(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_MENU_ITEM object and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_MENU_ITEM object must be defined within a
        STRUCT_MENU_ITEMS object.

    static void struct_attribs(void)

       This function allocates a new STRUCT_ATTRIBS object and transitions
       the JSON state machine to the new object state.

       A STRUCT_ATTRIBS object may only be defined within one of the
       following object types.

            * STRUCT_BACKDROP
            * STRUCT_WINDOW
            * STRUCT_PULLDOWN
            * STRUCT_MENU_BAR

    static void struct_b_attribs(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_B_ATTRIBS object and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_B_ATTRIBS object is where border attributes are defined.
        It can therefor only be defined within one of the following object
        types.

            * STRUCT_WINDOW
            * STRUCT_BACKDROP

    static void struct_s_attribs(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_S_ATTRIBS object and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_S_ATTRIBS object is where selected attributes are defined
        so it may only be defined within one of the following object
        types.

            * STRUCT_PULLDOWN
            * STRUCT_MENU_BAR

    static void struct_f_attribs(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_F_ATTRIBS object and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_F_ATTRIBS object is where focused attributes are defined
        so it must be defined within a STRUCT_WINDOW object.

    static void struct_d_attribs(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_D_ATTRIBS and transitions the
        JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_D_ATTRIBS object is where disabled attributes are defined
        so it may only be defined within one of the following object
        structures.

            * STRUCT_PULLDOWN
            * STRUCT_MENU_BAR

    static void struct_rgb_fg(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_RGB_FG pseudo object and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_RGB_FG object may only be defined within one of the
        following object structures.

            * STRUCT_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_B_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_S_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_F_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_D_ATTRIBS

    static void struct_rgb_bg(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_RGB_BG pseudo object and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_RGB_BG object may only be defined within one of the
        following object structures.

            * STRUCT_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_B_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_S_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_F_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_D_ATTRIBS

    static void struct_flags(void)

        This function allocates a new STRUCT_FLAGS and transitions the
        JSON state machine to the new object state.

        A STRUCT_FLAGS object may only be defined within one of the
        following object structures...

            * STRUCT_BACKDROP
            * STRUCT_WINDOW
            * STRUCT_PULLDOWN
            * STRUCT_MENU_BAR


11.3.2: Key tokens
------------------

Key type tokens do not allocate a new object type structure but they do
allocate a new state structure of a specific type and will transition the
JSON parsers state machine to the new state.

    static void key_attr(uint16_t key)

        This function allocates a new JSON state structure and will
        transition the JSON state machine to the new state.

        The type of the new JSON state structure will be one of the
        following.

            * KEY_FG    * KEY_GRAY_FG   * STRUCT_RGB_FG
            * KEY_BG    * KEY_GRAY_BG   * STRUCT_RGB_BG

        The STRUCT_RGB_FG and STRUCT_RGB_BG are so named because they are
        associated with a multi byte attribute but they still do not
        allocate any object structures.  They can be thought of as empty
        pseudo structure.

        These key types can only be defined within one of the following
        objects structures.

            * STRUCT_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_B_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_S_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_F_ATTRIBS
            * STRUCT_D_ATTRIBS

    static void key_rgb(uint16_t key)

        This function allocates a new JSON state structure and will
        transition the JSON state machine to the new state.

        The type of the new JSON state structure will be one of the
        following.

            * KEY_RED   * KEY_GREEN     * KEY_BLUE

        These key types can only be assigned to one of the following
        empty pseudo object structures

            * STRUCT_RGB_FG
            * STRUCT_RGB_BG

    static void key_blank(void)

        This function allocates a new JSON state structure of type
        KEY_BLANK.  It may only be assigned to one of the following
        object structure types.

            * STRUCT_BACKDROP
            * STRUCT_WINDOW

    static void key_xywh(uint16_t key)

        This function allocates a new JSON state structure and
        transitions the JSON state machine to the new state.

        The type of the new JSON state structure will be one of the
        following.

            * KEY_XCO        * KEY_YCO
            * KEY_WIDTH      * KEY_HEIGH

        It may therefore only be defined within a STRUCT_WINDOW object.

    static void key_name(void)

        This function allocates a new JSON state structure of type
        KEY_NAME and transitions the JSON state machine to the new state.

        A KEY_NAME can only be defined as part of one of the following
        object types.

            * STRUCT_PULLDOWN
            * STRUCT_MENU_ITEM
            * STRUCT_WINDOW

    static void key_flags(void)

        This function allocates a new JSON state structure of type
        KEY_FLAGS and transitions the JSON state machine to the new state.

        A KEY_FLAGS can only be defined as part of one of the following
        object types.

            * STRUCT_PULLDOWN
            * STRUCT_MENU_ITEM
            * STRUCT_WINDOW

    static void key_border_type(void)

        This function allocates a new JSON state structure of type
        KEY_BORDER_TYPE and transitions the JSON state machine to the new
        state.

        A KEY_BORDER_TYPE can only be defined as part of one of the
        following object types.

            * STRUCT_BACKDROP
            * STRUCT_WINDOW

    static void key_vector(void)

        This function allocates a new JSON state structure of type
        KEY_VECTOR and transitions the JSON state machine to the new
        state.

        A KEY_VECTOR can only be defined within a STRUCT_MENU_ITEM object.

    static void key_shortcut(void)

        This function allocates a new JSON state structure of type
        KEY_SHORTCUT and transitions the state machine to the new state.

        A KEY_SHORTCUT may only be defined within a STRUCT_MENU_ITEM
        object.

    static void key_flag(void)

        This function allocates a new JSON state structure of type
        KEY_FLAG and transitions the JSON state machine to the new state.

        A KEY_FLAG may only be defined within a STRUCT_FLAGS object.

    static void key_order(void)

        This function allocates a new JSON state structure of type
        KEY_ORDER and transitions the JSON state machine to the new state.

        A KEY_ORDER may only be defined within a STRUCT_WINDOW but may
        not be defined within a STRUCT_BACKDROP as the backdrop windows do
        not have a tab selection order or gain focus.

    static void breakpoint(void)

        This key is one of the mechanisms I used to debug the JSON state
        machine.   You should probably ignore it, I may eventually remove
        it.


11.3.3 Key and Object handling
------------------------------

All key and all object token names must be quoted.  Their not being quoted
is a critical error.  There must also be a ':' character following this
quoted token.  The ':' being missing is also a critical error.

The following functions are used to select between key tokens and object
tokens and to execute their respective handlers above.

    static const uC_switch_t object_types[]
    static const uC_switch_t key_types[]

        These arrays of uC_switch_t items contain lists of object or key
        token hash values and a function vector to be executed.  After a
        token is parsed and its quotes are stripped its hash value is
        computed and an attempt is made to select from each of the above
        switch_t tables.

        If one or other of these tables contains an entry with the
        specified hash value then that entries function vector is called
        and a true result is returned.   Otherwise a false result is
        returned.

    static void must_quote(int16_t len)

        As stated above all tokens for both keys and objects must be
        quoted.  This function asserts that the quotes are present.

    static void is_key(void)

        Given a token hash value an attempt is made here to select from
        the uC_switch_t table of keys.  If that selection is successful
        the function associated with that key is executed and the JSON
        state machine is transitioned into the JSON_STATE_VALUE state.

    static void check_colon(void)

        This function asserts that there is a ':' token immediately
        following the key / object token.

    void json_state_key(void)

        This function is called when the JSON state machine is in the
        JSON_STATE_KEY state.  It verifies that the parsed token is
        enclosed within double quote characters and then strips those
        quotes prior to calculating the tokens hash value.

        An attempt is then made to select from the object_types[]
        uC_switch_t array and if this is successful then the JSON state is
        transitioned to the JSON_STATE_L_BRACE state.

        Otherwise an attempt is then made to select from the key_types[]
        uC_switch_t array.

        The code then verifies that there is a ':' immediately following
        the key / object token.


11.4: json_value.c
------------------

After a key token has been successfully parsed and its associated function
is called the JSON state is transitioned into JSON_STATE_VALUE.  These
functions handle each key type and sets an appropriate item within their
associated object structures which is contained within the JSON state
machines state structure.

    static void value_fgbg(void)

        This function is called to set either a foreground or a background
        color within one of the various uC_attribs_t structures.  These
        'various' structures are all used to assign attributes to
        different elements within the user interface.

    static void value_gray_fgbg(void)

        This function is called to set either a gray scale foreground or a
        gray scale background within one of the various uC_attrib_t
        structures.  These 'various' structures are used to assign
        attributes to different elements within the user interface.

    static void value_rgb_fg(uC_attribs_t *gstruct)

        This function is called to set a one element of a RGB foreground
        color one of the various uC_attribs_t structures. These 'various'
        structures are used to assign attributes to different elements
        within the user interface.

        The *gstruct attributes structure passed in here is the keys
        grandparent because its parent is a pseudo structure.  The key
        will be one of the following items,

            * KEY_RED
            * KEY_GREEN
            * KEY_BLUE

    static void value_rgb_bg(uC_attribs_t *gstruct)

        This function is called to set a one element of a RGB background
        color one of the various uC_attribs_t structures. These 'various'
        structures are used to assign attributes to different elements
        within the user interface.

        The *gstruct attributes structure passed in here is the keys
        grandparent because its parent is a pseudo structure.  The key
        will be one of the following items,

            * KEY_RED
            * KEY_GREEN
            * KEY_BLUE

    static void value_rgb(void)

        This function is used to set either a foreground attribute or a
        background attribute to one element of a RGB color.  The attribute
        will be set in the keys grandparent object structure and the value
        assigned must be in the range 0 to 255.

    static void value_xy(void)

        This function is used to set either the X coordinate or the Y
        coordinate of a window structure within its parent screen.  The
        coordinates can be specified as a percentage of the screens
        overall dimensions.

    static void value_wh(void)

        This function is used to set either the width or the height of a
        window structure.  The dimensions may be expressed as a percentage
        of the parent screens overall dimensions.

    static void value_name(void)

        This function will set the name string of the keys parent object
        structure which will be one of the following object structures.

            * STRUCT_WINDOW
            * STRUCT_MENU_ITEM
            * STRUCT_PULLDOWN

        In the case of a window this function sets both its name and its
        display name.  The name of a window structure is a hash value of
        its display name.

    static void val_m_item_flag(menu_item_t *item)

        This function will set the flags element of a menu structure.
        Only one flag type is supported which is uC_MENU_DISABLED.

    static void val_pd_flag(pulldown_t *pd)

        This function will set the flags element of a pulldown menu
        structure.  Only one flag type is supported which is
        uC_MENU_DISABLED.

    static void val_win_flag(uC_window_t *win)

        This function will set the flags element of a window structure.
        If the flags being set contains a uC_WIN_BOXED then the windows
        width value is flagged as needing to be adjusted once the JSON
        parser has completed building the user interface.

    static void value_flag(void)

        This function will set a flags element of the grand parent
        object structure of the key.  The grand parent will be one of

            * STRUCT_MENU_ITEM
            * STRUCT_PULLDOWN
            * STRUCT_WINDOW

    static void value_border_type(void)

        This function will give a window structure a border which may be
        one of the following border types.

            * uC_BDR_SINGLE
            * uC_BDR_DOUBLE
            * uC_BDR_CURVED

    static void value_blank(void)

        This function sets the blank character for a window which is by
        default the space character.  When the window is cleared it will
        be filled with this character which may be any UTF-8 codepoint.

    static void value_order(void)

        This function sets the tab selection order of a window.

    static void value_vector(void)

        This function sets a pulldown menu items function vector address.
        This address is set by calling a fp finder function and passing it
        a hash of the name of the function whose address we need.

        This fp finder call is generated by executing the libraries .so
        file directly and passing it a file containing the names of every
        function we need the address of at run time.  The .so file will
        output sources to be added to your build which associate each name
        has value with its associated function.

        The function supplied by the .so file will return a menu functions
        address given that functions name hash.

    static void value_shortcut(void)

        One day, this function may very well give a pulldown menu item a
        shortcut key.  This is potentially on the todo list to add to the
        menu engine.

    static const uC_switch_t value_types[] =

       This uC_switch_t array associates each known key type with one of
       the key handling functions documented above.

    static int32_t constant_hash[]

        This array contains a list of hash values for known named
        constants which can be added to the applications JSON data.  Each
        of these hash values is associated with a constant value to be
        assigned to a key when parsing the JSON data.

    static int32_t constant_val[]

        This array contains a list of constant values in the same order as
        the above constant key hash values.

    static void parse_number(void)

        This function will parse a numerical value out of the JSON data
        which may be expressed in hexadecimal by prefixing the values
        string with the usual 0x prefix.

        It can also be expressed as a percentage of some other value based
        on JSON context.  For example, windows can be sized and located
        based on a percentage of the scree size.

        Values are assumed to be expressed in decimal if the 0x prefix
        is not specified.

    static void is_constant(void)

        This function will set the current key value to one of the known
        named constants values.

    static bool chk_quotes(uint16_t len)

        This function verifies that the most recently parsed JSON token is
        quoted.  If it is then those quotes are stripped and a true result
        is returned.  Otherwise a false result is returned.

    void json_state_value(void)

        This function is called by the JSON state machine when the current
        JSON state is STATE_VALUE.   It initializes the current key value
        to a special magic "not a number" value and then evaluates the
        JSON data and overrides that NAN with an actual value.

        It first tests to see if the value token is a known named constant
        and if, after doing this the key value is still NAN it will then
        attempt to interpret the value token as a numerical string.

        It must be one or other of these!

        It then uC_switch_t selects a function based on the key name so
        the function which knows how to set the specified key to the
        specified value will be executed.

        At this time, if the JSON state stack is not empty the previous
        JSON state is popped off the state stack which will be one of the
        following states.

            * JSON_STATE_KEY
            * JSON_STATE_R_BRACE

        If the JSON state stack was empty here that is an error condition
        that I do not actually believe is possible (but then again, this
        IS C!).


11.5: json_populate.c
---------------------

As the JSON sources are parsed and the state machine is executed, numerous
object structures will be created and populated with key values.  However,
when an object structure is defined as part of some other parent object
structure the state machine will not make that assignment.

Every object other than the root screen object will have a parent object
and this function will populate each parent object with what ever child
objects were defined within it.

This function is called by the JSON state machine for each object
structure except the screen (which has no parent) and populates that
objects parent with that object.

    static void populate_attribs(void *pstruct, int32_t ptype)

        This function will populate a parent structure with ts child
        uC_attribs_t object.  The parent object will be one of the
        following...

            * STRUCT_WINDOW
            * STRUCT_BACKDROP
            * STRUCT_PULLDOWN
            * STRUCT_MENU_BAR

        When the parent object has been populated with the child object
        the child objects JSON state structure is freed.

    static void populate_b_attribs(uC_window_t *pstruct)

        This function populates a parent window structure with its child
        border attributes structure.  Once this is completed the child's
        JSON state structure is freed.

    static void populate_s_attribs(void *pstruct, int32_t ptype)

        This function will populate a parent structures selected
        attributes with its child attributes structure.   The parent
        structure will be one of the following types..

            * STRUCT_PULLDOWN
            * STRUCT_MENU_BAR

        Once completed the child structures JSON state structure is freed.

    static void populate_d_attribs(void *pstruct, int32_t ptype)

        This function will populate a parent structures disabled
        attributes with its child attributes structure.  The parent
        structure will be one of the following types.

           * STRUCT_PULLDOWN
           * STRUCT_MENU_BAR

        Once completed the child structures JSON state structure is freed.

    static void populate_pulldown(menu_bar_t *pstruct)

        This function will populate a parent menu bar structure with
        its child pulldown menu structure.  The child is added to the
        parents array of pulldown menus and the parents item count is
        incremented.

    static void populate_menu_item(pulldown_t *gstruct)

        This function will populate a grandparent pulldown menu structure
        with its grandchild pulldown menu item structure.  The grandchild
        is added to the grandparents array of menu items and its item
        count is incremented.

    static void populate_window(json_state_t *parent)

        This function populates the root screen structure with a child
        window structure.   The uC_scr_win_attach() API is called to
        add the child window to its parent screen.

    static void populate_backdrop(uC_screen_t *pstruct)

        This function populates the root screen structure with a child
        backdrop window structure.

    static void populate_bar(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This function populates the root screen structure with a child
        menu bar structure.

    void populate_parent(void)

        For each object structure created by the JSON state machine this
        function is called to add that object structure to its parent
        object structure using one of the above documented functions.


11.6: json_build.c
------------------

This module will build the applications user interface, allocating various
structures and fixing values which could not be known while the state
machine built the user interface objects until all the objects had been
created.

At this point all objects have been created and we can finalize the
initialization of the applications user interface.

    static void bounds_check(uC_window_t *win)

        When a window object is created by the JSON state machine it will
        have its position and dimensions specified in the JSON data.  This
        function verifies that those values are valid and will puke if
        they are not.

        When checking a windows coordinates against the known width and
        height of the console (and thus the width and height which will
        be taken up by the screen) we must account for any borders that
        have been assigned to that window.

        If there is a border then the window is actually two characters
        taller and two characters wider that what is specified in that
        windows dimensions.

        If any part of the window, including its borders would be situated
        outside the bounds of its parent screen structure then this is a
        critical error.

    static void fix_win(uC_screen_t *scr, uC_window_t *win)

        Window positional coordinates can be expressed as "WIN_FAR" in the
        JSON data.  This means the window is meant to be situated either
        as far right or as far down the screen as it can go and still fit
        within the bounds of that screen.

        This function moves a window thusly defined into its requested
        position within the screen.

    static void fix_windows(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This function performs a "fixup" procedure on all windows attached
        to their parent screen structure.

        If the screen has a backdrop window then the backdrop structure
        will need to be finalized by setting its width, height and
        position within the screen.  The windows backing store will also
        need to be allocated.

        This code will then scan through the active screens list of
        attached windows and will "fix" that window using the above
        documented functions, will verify that its position is valid,
        will allocate its backing store, set its blank character to
        a space (which it might not be supposed to do?).

    static void fix_menus(uC_screen_t *scr)

        This function will perform a fixup procedure on any menu bar that
        is attached to the specified screen.

        It will open a window for that menu bar, set that window as
        scroll locked, reset the child pulldown menus X coordinate two
        two (where the first pulldown menu item will be positioned) and
        set its blank character.

        For each pulldown menu associated with that menu bar this function
        will then assign that pulldown menus X coordinate, adjust the
        X coordinate for the next pulldown based on this pulldown menus
        name length then set the pulldown menus width equal to the width
        of the widest menu items name contained therein.

    void json_build_ui(void)

        This function is called as the final operation of the JSON state
        machine, once the JSON_STATE_DONE state is reached.

        It allocates the backing store for the now existent active_screen
        structure and fixes all the windows and any menu bar attached to
        that screen using the above functions.

        At this time the entire user interface has been defined.

        Job complete!


12: Final words
---------------

This library has been in semi active development for a number of years.
It is far from complete, has known issues (with certain terminal types)
and is significantly larger than I intended it to be (and will probably
still grow some more).

I am in no way, shape or form an expert at developing for *nix terminals
and if I am totally honest I must admit to a certain level of ABSOLUTE
FREEKING INSANITY for even attempting this.

I do not know if this code is safe and as it currently stands I am certain
it is neither as consistent nor as reliable as ncurses (tyvm TED!).

    BUT!

It actually preforms amazingly well considering and was a joyful challenge
to implement.

Writing this document however was certainly not fun and I am certain there
is VAST room for improvements herein.  It is also only half the job so
there is a lot more documentation incoming (soon ish maybe kinda).

If you read something here that makes absolutely no sense to you or is
known by you to be utterly incorrect I can be contacted via email or
through the projects github page which is listed on this documents cover
sheet at the top.

    My email is mark4th at 'g' you know where dot com.

==========================================================================
